Retrieval Augmented Generation with Collaborative Filtering for Personalized Text Generation Teng Shi Renmin University of China Beijing, China shiteng@ruc.edu.cn Jun Xu∗ Xiao Zhang Renmin University of China Beijing, China {junxu,zhangx89}@ruc.edu.cn Xiaoxue Zang Kai Zheng Kuaishou Technology Co., Ltd. Beijing, China xxic666@126.com zhengk92@gmail.com Yang Song Han Li Kuaishou Technology Co., Ltd. Beijing, China ys@sonyis.me lihan08@kuaishou.com Abstract Recently, the personalization of Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate content that aligns with individual user preferences has garnered widespread attention. Personalized Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), which retrieves relevant documents from the user’s history to reflect their preferences and enhance LLM genera- tion, is one commonly used approach for personalization. However, existing personalized RAG methods do not consider that the his- tories of similar users can also assist in personalized generation for the current user, meaning that collaborative information be- tween users can also benefit personalized generation. Inspired by the application of collaborative filtering in recommender systems, we propose a method called CFRAG, which adapts Collaborative Filtering to RAG for personalized text generation. However, this presents two challenges: (1) how to incorporate collaborative infor- mation without explicit user similarity labels? (2) how to retrieve documents that support personalized LLM generation? For Chal- lenge 1, we use contrastive learning to train user embeddings to retrieve similar users and introduce collaborative information. For Challenge 2, we design a personalized retriever and reranker to re- trieve the top-𝑘 documents from these users’ histories. We take into account the user’s preference during retrieval and reranking. Then we leverage feedback from the LLM to fine-tune the personalized retriever and reranker, enabling them to retrieve documents that meet the personalized generation needs of the LLM. Experimental results on the Language Model Personalization (LaMP) benchmark ∗Corresponding authors. Work partially done at Engineering Research Center of Next- Generation Intelligent Search and Recommendation, Ministry of