, which serves as another hyperparameter, to create a risk range for decision-making. This threshold helps in determining the confidence level for whether context retrieval should be applied, balancing the trade-off between precision and recall in the retrieval process. C. Context Retrieval Supervision Bench (CRSB) We introduce the Context Retrieval Supervision Bench (CRSB) dataset, which can be used to evaluate the per- formance of context-aware systems and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) semantic routers. The CRSB contains 17 different topics, with each context associated with 3 pseudo- queries. This design allows the CRSB to encompass a total of 5,100 question-answer pairs. With a correct permutation, CRSB can offer more than 83000 context-query pairs to evaluate the context awareness systems and semantic routing pipelines.. IV. E XPERIMENTS To analyze the statistical relationships between relevant and irrelevant context-query pairs, we examine the distribution of collected contexts and generated pseudo-queries. We begin by gathering 1,700 contexts across 17 distinct topics. For each context, we prompt the Gemma 2 9B language model [22] to generate three pseudo-queries.We applied all−mpnet−base− v2 as our embedding model and create a vector database of contexts and pseudo-queries embeddings [23]. We then calculate the similarity distributions for Positive (relevant) context-query pairs, where the queries require con- text retrieval, as well as for Negative (irrelevant) context- query pairs. With appropriate permutations, we analyze 83,000 Positive and Negative context-query pairs. Various statistical metrics are applied to these distributions, and the results are presented in Table I. As demonstrated in Table I, over 95% of positive context- question pairs exhibit a cosine similarity greater than 0.55, while more than 95% of negative context-query pairs have a cosine similarity lower than 0.21. The median value for the positive set exceeds 0.71, whereas the median for the negative set is below 0.04. Although the maximum value