Context Awareness Gate For Retrieval Augmented Generation Mohammad Hassan Heydari Computer Engineering Faculty University of Isfahan Isfahan, Iran mheydarii@mehr.ui.ac.ir Arshia Hemmat Computer Engineering Faculty University of Isfahan Isfahan, Iran arshiahemmat@mehr.ui.ac.ir Erfan Naman Computer Engineering Facu. University of Isfahan Isfahan, Iran erfannaman@mehr.ui.ac.ir Afsaneh Fatemi Computer Engineering Faculty University of Isfahan Isfahan, Iran a fatemi@eng.ui.ac.ir Abstract—Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a widely adopted approach to mitigate the limitations of large language models (LLMs) in answering domain-specific questions. Previous research has predominantly focused on improving the accuracy and quality of retrieved data chunks to enhance the overall performance of the generation pipeline. However, despite ongoing advancements, the critical issue of retrieving irrelevant information—which can impair a model’s ability to utilize its internal knowledge effectively—has received minimal attention. In this work, we investigate the impact of retrieving irrelevant information in open-domain question answering, highlighting its significant detrimental effect on the quality of LLM outputs. To address this challenge, we propose the Context Awareness Gate (CAG) architecture, a novel mechanism that dynamically adjusts the LLM’s input prompt based on whether the user query necessitates external context retrieval. Additionally, we introduce the Vector Candidates method, a core mathematical component of CAG that is statistical, LLM-independent, and highly scalable. We further examine the distributions of relationships between contexts and questions, presenting a statistical analysis of these distributions. This analysis can be leveraged to enhance the context retrieval process in retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) systems 1. Index Terms —Retrieval-Augmented Generation, Hallucina- tion, Large Language Models, Open Domain Question Answering I. I NTRODUCTION Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has emerged as a leading approach for implementing question-answering sys- tems that require intensive domain-specific knowledge [1]. This method allows for the utilization of customized datasets to generate answers, grounded in the information provided by those datasets. However, the effectiveness of the retrieval