and enhancement of Context Awareness Gate (CAG) in open-domain question answering systems: • Incorporating Best Practices in Information Retrieval: Future work could focus on integrating the methodologies outlined in [15] to refine CAG’s information retrieval pipeline. Specifically, these practices could optimize how CAG filters and ranks relevant information, leading to even more precise data selection. By enhancing the gran- ularity of relevance scoring during retrieval, CAG could further improve its ability to identify and utilize the most contextually pertinent chunks of information, boosting both retrieval accuracy and downstream performance in generating high-quality responses. • Replacing Pseudo-Context Search with Pseudo-Query Search: While the pseudo-context search strategy pro- posed in HyDE [6] has been effective, this study intro- duces the concept of pseudo-query search as a potentially more robust alternative. Future research could explore the efficacy of this approach across various datasets and domains. A systematic evaluation of the pseudo-query search could reveal whether it generalizes better across different question-answering tasks, especially in complex or multi-turn dialogues, where context awareness is cru- cial for maintaining conversation coherence. REFERENCES [1] P. Lewis, E. Perez, A. Piktus, F. Petroni, V . Karpukhin, N. Goyal, H. K ¨uttler, M. Lewis, W.-t. Yih, T. Rockt ¨aschel et al. , “Retrieval- augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , vol. 33, pp. 9459–9474, 2020. [2] J. Chen, H. Lin, X. Han, and L. Sun, “Benchmarking large language models in retrieval-augmented generation,” in Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 38, no. 16, 2024, pp. 17 754– 17 762. [3] C. Xiang, T. Wu, Z. Zhong, D. Wagner, D. Chen, and P. Mittal, “Certifiably robust rag against retrieval corruption,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.15556, 2024. [4] S. Dhuliawala, M. Komeili, J. Xu, R. Raileanu, X. Li, A. Celikyilmaz, and J. Weston, “Chain-of-verification reduces