https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn 1 Introduction Human cognition is constrained by fundamental processing limitations, creating a gap between perception and reasoning [6]. While sensory systems acquire information at approximately 109 bits per second, cognitive processing operates at only about 10 bits per second [18]. This bottleneck limits individuals’ ability to synthesize, connect, and apply knowledge efficiently, often leading to cognitive overload and decision-making biases. LLMs offer a promising solution by augmenting human reasoning, but their current reactive nature restricts real-world applicability [ 19]. To bridge this gap, we propose context-aware cognitive augmentation, where LLMs dynamically adapt to users’ This paper was presented at the 2025 ACM Workshop on Human-AI Interaction for Augmented Reasoning (AIREASONING-2025-01). This is the authors’ version for arXiv. ∗corresponding author Authors’ Contact Information: Xiangrong (Daniel) Zhu, xzhu744@connect.hkust-gz.edu.cn; Yuan Xu, yuanxu@hkust-gz.edu.cn; Tianjian Liu, tianjianl@ hkust-gz.edu.cn, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou), Guangzhou, China; Jingwei Sun, sunjw12@lenovo.com; Yu Zhang, zhangyu29@lenovo.com, Lenovo Research, Beijing, China; Xin Tong, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou) and The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Guangzhou, China, xint@hkust-gz.edu.cn. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. © 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. Manuscript submitted to ACM Manuscript submitted to ACM 1 arXiv:2504.13684v1 [cs.HC] 18 Apr 2025 2