relevance definitions – achieving GPT-4-level performance (§ 3.3). Sec- ond, we showcase how DIRAS assists in real-life IR annotation by re-annotating ClimRetrieve (Schi- manski et al., 2024b). Results show that DIRAS student LLMs can effectively capture partial rel- evance, leverage improved relevance definitions, mitigate annotation selection bias, and annotate benchmarking datasets for IR algorithms (§ 4.1). Third, we re-annotate document relevance for gen- eral QA and RAG datasets, showing DIRAS’s po- tential in generic domains (§ 4.2). Collectively, our contributions include: 1. We propose DIRAS, a framework fine-tuning open-sourced LLMs into efficient and effec- tive IR annotators, taking domain expertise into account. 2. We annotate ChatReportRetrieve, the first IR benchmark addressing integrative queries in RAG, and providing explicit relevance defini- tion as annotation guidelines. 3. We showcase how to apply DIRAS in real- world IR annotation by re-annotating ClimRe- trieve and general QA datasets. 2 DIRAS Pipeline The DIRAS pipeline is illustrated in Fig. 2. It comprises three steps: sampling a subset of (query, document) pairs for training data creation, obtain- ing relevance definitions for queries, and distilling relevance annotation ability from teacher to student LLMs. Sampling (Query, Document) Pairs : DIRAS takes domain-specific queries and documents as input. To sample representative (query, document) pairs as training data, it first ranks documents for each query using a small dense retriever. Then, it samples an equal number of documents within and outside of top-k (a pre-defined hyperparameter) to obtain representative documents for each query. While sampling in top-k aims at covering some relevant documents, sampling outside of top-k en- sures covering the broader distribution of (query, document) pairs. Obtaining Relevance Definitions: Each query in the sampled (query, document) pairs needs to be accompanied by an explicit definition indicating what is relevant or irrelevant to the question. The relevance definition can be