Allan Zhou, Archit Sharma, Rafael Rafailov, Huaxiu Yao, Chelsea Finn, and Christopher D. Manning. 2023. Just Ask for Calibration: Strategies for Eliciting Calibrated Con- fidence Scores from Language Models Fine-Tuned with Human Feedback. ArXiv:2305.14975 [cs]. Harsh Trivedi, Niranjan Balasubramanian, Tushar Khot, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2022. MuSiQue: Multi- hop questions via single-hop question composition. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 10:539–554. Zilong Wang, Zifeng Wang, Long Le, Huaixiu Steven Zheng, Swaroop Mishra, Vincent Perot, Yuwei Zhang, Anush Mattapalli, Ankur Taly, Jingbo Shang, Chen-Yu Lee, and Tomas Pfister. 2024. Specula- tive rag: Enhancing retrieval augmented generation through drafting. Shi-Qi Yan, Jia-Chen Gu, Yun Zhu, and Zhen-Hua Ling. 2024. Corrective retrieval augmented generation. Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Ben- gio, William W. Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christopher D. Manning. 2018. Hotpotqa: A dataset for diverse, explainable multi-hop question answer- ing. A Exemplifying Partial Relevance When labeling whether a document is relevant for a question, there exists a large grey scale of rel- evance rather than a black-and-white relevant or irrelevant label. Humans can only consistently cap- ture these nuances to a certain extent. The judg- ment of relevance also depends on the context and the annotator’s domain expertise. Consider for instance the following excerpt of a document: """ [...] Implement Risk Controls : Integrated Management System ( IMS ) : The K & S Integrated Management System ( IMS ) , which has been implemented at our six major design and manufacturing sites , is certified under the corporate ISO 9001:2015 , ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018 certifications . Our integrated Quality , Environmental and Occupational Health & Safety ( QEHS ) Management System enables the achievement of harmonized K & S worldwide objectives . """ Furthermore, conclude as to whether this is rele- vant to answer the following query