needs of recommendation tasks. To alleviate these issues, one potential solution is to frequently fine-tune the LLMs with up-to-date and domain-specific knowledge. However, the mas- sive parameters of LLMs make this process com- putationally expensive and time-consuming, which severely hinders the practical application in the real world. More recently, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) leveraging external databases to provide specific knowledge shows promise to solve these problems (Fan et al., 2024a; Gao et al., 2023). By incorporating an external knowledge base, RAG can retrieve relevant and up-to-date information to complement the LLM’s inherent knowledge, thereby mitigating the issues of hallucinations and knowledge gaps (Khandelwal et al., 2019; Min et al., 2020; Li et al., 2024). This makes RAG a promising technique for enabling LLMs to pro- vide effective recommendations without the need for costly fine-tuning (Ram et al., 2023). Despite this potential, vanilla RAG methods that rely on documents and paragraphs often introduce unnecessary noise and even harmful disturbance, which can negatively impact the accuracy and relia- bility of recommendations (He et al., 2024). In ad- dition, the structural relationships between entities are overlooked in typical RAG, resulting in the sub- optimal reasoning capability of LLM-based rec- ommender systems (Luo et al., 2023). To address the limitations, a prospective solution is to incor- porate structured knowledge such as items’ knowl- edge graph (KG) to help improve recommendation performance. Specifically, KGs offer structured, factual, and editable representations of knowledge, which can provide a faithful knowledge source for recommendations. As shown in Figure 1 (c), re- trieving structured knowledge from the KG can significantly enhance the recommendation capabil- ities of LLM-based recommender systems. However, it is challenging to effectively retrieve KGs to enhance the recommendation capabilities of LLMs. First, KGs store rich factual knowl- edge in a structured format. Simply retrieving the triplets or