LLaMA (Touvron et al., 2023)) are able to acquire extensive knowledge and demonstrate ex- ceptional language understanding capability. This capability enables LLM-based recommender sys- tems to capture user preferences through a nu- anced understanding of relevant attributes (e.g., user profiles, item descriptions, historical inter- actions) for more accurate recommendations. As a result, LLM-based recommender systems have emerged as a new paradigm in recommendation technology (Zhao et al., 2024). However, despite their powerful language un- derstanding and generalization capability, LLM- based recommender systems face significant chal- lenges, including hallucinations and lack of up-to- date and domain-specific knowledge (Luo et al., 2023). Specifically, one key issue is that LLM- arXiv:2501.02226v2 [cs.IR] 28 May 2025 based recommender systems may generate recom- mendations that are entirely fictional due to the inherent limitations of LLMs. For example, an LLM-based recommender system may recommend "Godmother", a non-existent film, to the user who has watched "The Godfather", as illustrated in Fig- ure 1 (a). Additionally, LLMs usually lack up-to- date knowledge, which can prevent them from rec- ommending the latest films or products in a timely manner. As illustrated in Figure 1 (b), the LLM- based recommender system is unable to recom- mend the latest films due to the training data only containing up to December 2022. Furthermore, LLMs often lack domain-specific knowledge, as recommendation-oriented corpora are very limited during the training phase of LLMs (Geng et al., 2022). Consequently, LLMs may struggle to meet the nuanced needs of recommendation tasks. To alleviate these issues, one potential solution is to frequently fine-tune the LLMs with up-to-date and domain-specific knowledge. However, the mas- sive parameters of LLMs make this process com- putationally expensive and time-consuming, which severely hinders the practical application in the real world. More recently, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) leveraging external databases to provide specific knowledge shows