faithful knowledge source for recommendations. As shown in Figure 1 (c), re- trieving structured knowledge from the KG can significantly enhance the recommendation capabil- ities of LLM-based recommender systems. However, it is challenging to effectively retrieve KGs to enhance the recommendation capabilities of LLMs. First, KGs store rich factual knowl- edge in a structured format. Simply retrieving the triplets or first-order neighbors of an entity (i.e., item) with semantic information neglects the im- portance of these higher-order neighborhood ef- fects among entities/items, resulting in sub-optimal recommendation performance. Second, indiscrimi- nate retrieving for each item, regardless of whether the retrieval is necessary or the content is relevant, can degrade the performance of the recommen- dation while severely reducing the model’s effi- ciency (Asai et al., 2023; Labruna et al., 2024). Furthermore, structured data in KGs is typically en- coded for LLM in the form of serialized text (Wu et al., 2023b; Sun et al., 2023), which is insuffi- cient for fully exploiting the structural information inherent in the data (Perozzi et al., 2024; Fatemi et al., 2023). Therefore, it is crucial to explore more effective and expressive ways of representing struc- tured data, allowing LLMs to effectively leverage the structure information of retrieved knowledge sub-graphs for recommendations. To address the aforementioned challenges, in this paper, we propose a knowledge retrieval- augmented recommendation framework, namelyK- RagRec, to provide up-to-date and reliable knowl- edge by retrieving relevant knowledge from item’s KGs for recommendation generation in the era of LLMs. Specifically, our proposed framework first performs knowledge sub-graph indexing on the items’ KG at a coarse and fine granularity to con- struct the knowledge vector database. Next, a pop- ularity selective retrieval policy is designed to de- termine which items should be retrieved, followed by the retrieval of specific sub-graphs from the knowledge vector