- resentation and Retrieval workshop at SIGIR (2024) introduced the challenge of multimodal queries and documents. The Informa tion Retrieval Meets LLMs workshop at WWW (2024) addressed issue s like retrieval-generation collaboration and hallucination. The Large Knowledge-Enhanced Models workshop at IJCAI (2024) discus sed integrating LLMs with symbolic knowledge, while the Knowle dge Retrieval and Language Models workshop at ICML (2022) high- lighted the limitations of knowledge retrieval. R 3AG is the ﬁrst workshop to focus on reﬁned and reliable RAG techniques. It w ill feature invited talks, paper presentations, and the releas e of real datasets and code for future practice. 5 ORGANIZERS INFORMATION Prof. Joemon M. Jose is a Professor at the School of Computing Science, University of Glasgow, Scotland and a member of the In- formation Retrieval group. His research focuses on the foll owing three themes: (i) Social Media Analytics; (ii) Multi-modal LLMs for information retrieval; (iii) Multimedia mining and search . He has published over 300 papers with more than 10,000 Google Schol ar citations, and an h-index of 51. He leads the GAIR Lab investigating research issues related to the above themes. He has been serv ing as the program committee chair and member for numerous top international conferences (e.g., SIGIR, WWW, and ECIR). He also serves as a PC chair for SIGIR-AP 2024. 1https://coda.io/@rstless-group/ir-rag-sigir24 2https://mrr-workshop.github.io/ 3https://irmeetsllm.github.io/ 4https://lkm2024.openkg.org/ 5https://knowledge-retrieval-workshop.github.io/ SIGIR-AP ’24, December 9–12, 2024, Tokyo, Japan Zihan Wang e t al. Dr. Zhaochun Ren is an Associate Professor at Leiden University. His research interests focus on joint research in IR and natu ral lan- guage processing, with an emphasis on conversational information seeking, question-answering, and recommender systems. He aims to develop intelligent systems that can address complex use r re- quests and solve core challenges in both information retrie val and natural language processing