organizers will make the ﬁnal decision. Authors will receive detailed review comments and a notiﬁcation letter. Tentative Program Committee. In addition to the current 7 or- ganizers, we also plan to invite the following tentative PC m em- bers: (1) Dr. Chao Huang from University of Hong Kong, (2) Dr. Xiangyu Zhao from the City University of Hong Kong, (3) Dr. An - drew Yates from University of Amsterdam, and (4) Dr. Alexand ros Karatzoglou from Amazon. 3.4 Online Materials A website for the R 3AG workshop will be made available online. All relevant materials, including talk information, presentation slides, referred papers, speaker details, and related open-source projects, will be accessible on this website. 3.5 Workshop Advertisement The R 3AG workshop will be promoted on various social media platforms to increase visibility and encourage paper submi ssions. These platforms include, but are not limited to, Twitter, Fa cebook, and WeChat. Additionally, the organizers will send persona lized emails to further advertise the workshop. 4 RELATED WORKSHOPS List of related workshops: • Information Retrieval’s Role in RAG Systems (SIGIR 20241) • Multimodal Representation and Retrieval (SIGIR 20242) • Information Retrieval Meets Large Language Models (WWW 2024 3) • Large Knowledge-Enhanced Models (IJCAI 20244) • Knowledge Retrieval and Language Models (ICML 20225) The Information Retrieval’s Role in RAG Systems workshop at SI- GIR (2024) explored retrieval’s integral role in RAG framew orks. As multimodal LLMs and RAG gain traction, the Multimodal Rep - resentation and Retrieval workshop at SIGIR (2024) introduced the challenge of multimodal queries and documents. The Informa tion Retrieval Meets LLMs workshop at WWW (2024) addressed issue s like retrieval-generation collaboration and hallucination. The Large Knowledge-Enhanced Models workshop at IJCAI (2024) discus sed integrating LLMs with symbolic knowledge, while the Knowle dge Retrieval and Language Models workshop at ICML