we combine the key information obtained from the previous stage with the candidate items and auxiliary information to construct the prompt. We then use the prompt generated in the augmentation stage to call the LLM and obtain the recommendation results, thus achieving user-level unlearning. A. Retrieval with Filtering for Unlearning In this phase, we retrieve user-related information from a dy- namically updateable dataset to control the recommendation. It is crucial that we filter out the information the user needs to forget and select useful information for recommendations, thereby achieving unlearning at the user level. Retrieval Augmented Generation Interaction data Unlearning request LLMs (e.g., llama) Filtering strategies User Preference- based Filtering Diversity-aware Filtering Attention-aware Filtering New recommended items User Related data No strategy interactions User related information (considering user unlearning request) User profile Item attribute Original model Origin recommended items Filtered user data Augmented prompt Fig. 2. The framework of CRAGRU. When the user submits an unlearning request, the retriever uses the request to fetch relevant information from the dataset and filters out the information that needs to be forgotten. The remaining information is then used to create an unlearning prompt. Finally, the LLM generates recommendation results based on the user’s needs. As defined before, D represents the user’s historical inter- action data. For a given user u, we retrieve relevant infor- mation: Du = Retrieve( u; D). Our method enables efficient and accurate user-level unlearning by simply excluding the target data from the retrieval process, thus eliminating the need for retraining. Therefore, when unlearning is required for certain data Du f ⊆ D u, we use a filter function to exclude this information from user data, get the filtered dataset: Dfiltered u = Filter( Du, Du f ). We provide recommendations based on Dfiltered u to facilitate efficient unlearning. Specifically,