paper, we compare CRAGRU with State-of-the-art unlearning methods across two representative recommendation models: • BPR [47]: This is a widely used recommendation model, where the core idea is to optimize matrix factorization using a Bayesian personalized ranking objective. • LightGCN [1]: This is an advanced collaborative filtering model that improves recommendation performance by simplifying the graph convolutional network. The compared unlearning methods are listed as follows: • Retrain: Retrain achieves unlearning by retraining the model in the dataset after removing the forget set. • SISA [25]: This is an unlearning method that divides the data into multiple shards, trains sub-models inde- pendently on each shard, and aggregates their prediction results. • GraphEraser [9]: This is an unlearning method designed for graph data. It partitions the graph through node clus- tering and uses static weighted aggregation for prediction to better align with the characteristics of graph data. • RecEraser [10]: It is an advanced recommendation un- learning method that improves the partitioning and ag- gregation strategies of SISA by using interaction-based partitioning and attention-based aggregation to improve recommendation performance. • SCIF [13]: SCIF uses influence functions to negate removed data’s impact but ignores spillover effects. It never truly deletes records; it replaces labels with their average. • IFRU [11]: IFRU iteratively reweights affected latent features to remove forgotten interactions, but this process can be computationally intensive and may fail to fully isolate the forget set’s impact. 2http://netflixprize.com 3) Evaluation Metrics: To evaluate recommendation per- formance after unlearning, we employ two common metrics: Hit Ratio (HR@ K) and Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain (NDCG@ K). HR@ K measures the precision of the recommendation by calculating the proportion of times that the user’s target item is present in the topK recommendations. NDCG@K is a ranking metric that gives higher weights to top-ranked items, considering