ColBERT [ 45], have demonstrated sub- stantial improvements in retrieval effectiveness. Hybrid retrievers, Rankify: A Comprehensive Python Toolkit for Retrieval, Re-Ranking, and RAG SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padova, IT Raw DocumentsIndexes Datasets Collection NQ-DPR NQ-BM25 NQ-ColBert ….. ….. ….. WebQ-DPR WebQ-BM25 WebQ-ColBert ….. ….. ….. PopQA-DPR PopQA-BM25 PopQA-ColBert DPR-Wiki DPR-MsMarco BM25-MsMarcoBM25-Wik ….. ….. Select Retriever dataset Combination Send Questions (Select Retriever and Corpus) Dense Retriever Sparse Retriever Pointwise Reranking Listwise Reranking 12345 1 234 5 Top-K documents Prompt Augmentation Generator Model Final Answer Pre-Retrieved Datasets & Indexing ….. Retrieval & Re-Ranking Generator Pairwise Reranking Zero Shot Figure 2: An overview of the Rankify pipeline, demonstrating its dual capability for document retrieval. Users can interact with the system either by providing a query to retrieve relevant documents in real-time or by leveraging pre-retrieved datasets already indexed by the framework. The process starts with Pre-Retrieved Datasets & Corpus Indexing, where documents are indexed using both dense (e.g., DPR) and sparse (e.g., BM25) retrievers across corpus like Wikipedia and MS MARCO. Next, in the Retrieval & Re-Ranking stage, the system retrieves candidate documents using dense, or sparse retrieval methods and re-ranks them with pointwise pairwise, or listwise models powered by large language models (LLMs). Finally, the Generator stage applies prompt augmentation and uses models like Fusion-in-Decoder (FiD) to generate accurate and contextually informed answers. combining sparse and dense signals [26, 58], further enhance per- formance by leveraging both lexical and semantic features. Recent advancements, including knowledge distillation [74] and curricu- lum learning [113], continue to refine retrieval performance across diverse datasets. Re-ranking methods have also evolved alongside retrieval tech- niques to improve the ordering of retrieved documents. Traditional pointwise [114] and pairwise [11] approaches have given way to listwise methods like LambdaRank and ListNet [10, 55]. Deep neural models, including cross-encoders and