abstracts implementation details and simplifies experimentation across dif- ferent models. Figure 2 and 3 illustrates the interactions between these modules within the pipeline. The framework is scalable, adapt- able, and suited for both research and real-world applications like search engines and question-answering systems. Rankify is open- source, actively maintained6, and accompanied by comprehensive documentation7 to support easy adoption for both beginners and experts. 3.1 Prebuilt Retrieval Corpora and Indexes Rankify provides two large-scale retrieval corpora:Wikipedia [42] and MS MARCO [62], enabling researchers to conduct retrieval experiments on well-established benchmarks. To support efficient retrieval, Rankify includes pre-built index files for each retriever, al- lowing users to directly query the corpora without requiring costly 6https://github.com/abdoelsayed2016/reranking 7http://rankify.readthedocs.io/ Rankify: A Comprehensive Python Toolkit for Retrieval, Re-Ranking, and RAG SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padova, IT indexing. Each corpus has been indexed for multiple retrieval mod- els, including BM25, DPR, ANCE, BGE, Contriever, and ColBERT. By providing precomputed indexes, Rankify simplifies large-scale retrieval research while maintaining consistency across different retrieval pipelines. Users can view all available datasets using the following command (see Listing 1): 1 from rankify . dataset . dataset import Dataset 2 Dataset . avaiabl e_datase t () Listing 1: This script retrieves the latest information about the available datasets, and displays metadata for each dataset in the terminal. 3.2 Datasets Rankify provides a standardized and efficient way to handle datasets for retrieval, re-ranking, and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). To simplify retrieval workflows, Rankify integrates pre-retrieved datasets with structured annotations, enabling users to experiment with various retrieval and re-ranking methods with minimal code. The datasets in Rankify are categorized based on task type and size, as shown in Table 2. Each dataset follows a standardized schema with three main components: the Question, which represents the query requiring relevant information; the Answers, which are the