for most individual queries. This would pose a significant challenge to hybrid retrieval optimization. These limitations and opportunities motivate our research questions: • How can we effectively combine sparse and dense retrieval methods to maximize retrieval performance? • How can a retrieval system adapt to the specific relationship between each query and the knowledge base to determine optimal retrieval parameters? • To what extent can dynamic weight adjustment improve individual query perfor- mance compared to fixed weighting approaches? • Can we design a hybrid retrieval system that balances effectiveness and efficiency by leveraging minimal LLM reasoning? Figure 1: Comparison between the traditional fixed alpha approach (top) and our proposed DAT approach (bottom). While fixed alpha methods use predetermined weights regardless of query characteristics, DAT dynamically adjusts the retrieval weighting coefficient based on query-specific features, optimizing retrieval performance. To address these challenges, we introduce DAT, a novel framework that adaptively adjusts the retrieval weighting coefficient based on query-specific characteristics. The key insight of our approach is that the optimal hybrid weighting α for each query should reflect the relative effectiveness of sparse and dense retrieval methods in that specific context. As shown in Figure 1, DAT dynamically computes an optimal α value for each query while minimizing computational overhead. Our approach evaluates the relative effectiveness of each retrieval method by comparing the top-1 retrieved result from both BM25 and dense retrieval. This design is based on the understanding that sparse retrieval effectiveness depends primarily on term overlap 2 Preprint. Under review. between queries and documents, while dense retrieval relies on effective semantic embed- ding alignment. By assessing only the top result from each method with an LLM-based effectiveness scoring mechanism, we can efficiently determine which retrieval method performs better for a given query without the computational burden of evaluating multiple documents.