to RAG evaluation. The limited number of interviews, predominantly from Europe, and the fact that the results reflect a specific point in time may limit the generalizability of the findings. Nonetheless, we think the consistency of responses suggests that the principal industry perspectives were effectively captured. Looking forward, despite the ongoing trial phase, we expect industry to increasingly adopt recent advancements in RAG research, as the benefits outweigh implementation efforts. In particular, we expect that agentic RAG approaches are poised for widespread adoption due to their potential to enable greater system autonomy, dynamic adaptation to contextual changes, and seamless integration with external tools and services—capabilities that are currently lacking in industry applications. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS We would like to thank all our study participants, including Vaadin, Akkodis, cccom Moser GmbH, roosi GmbH, PPI AG, Flex.Insight Advisory, Kufgem GmbH, HerculesAI, DeepOpinion and other partners, for their valuable contributions. This research was supported by the Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG) under the GENIUS project [931318, 921454]. During the preparation of this paper, we used ChatGPT-4.1 as well as Grammarly for grammar and spelling checks, and GitHub CoPilot. REFERENCES Adams, W. C. (2015). Conducting semi-structured interviews. In Handbook of Practical Program Evaluation, pages 492–505. John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, NJ, USA. Afzal, A., Kowsik, A., Fani, R., and Matthes, F. (2024). Towards optimizing and evaluating a retrieval augmented QA chatbot using LLMs with human in the loop. Almada, M. and Petit, N. (2025). The EU AI Act: Between the rock of product safety and the hard place of fundamental rights. Common Market Law Review , pages 85–120. Arslan, M., Munawar, S., and Cruz, C. (2024). Business insights using RAG–LLMs: a review and case study. Journal of Decision Systems, 0(0):1–30. Brehme, L., Dornauer, B., Str ¨ohle, T., Ehrhart, M., and Breu, R. (2025a). Replication package