it a pressing concern. Ethical Considerations and Bias require that the RAG system produces neutral, unbiased responses and avoids discrimination or unethical outputs. Despite the importance of ethics in AI, this requirement received the lowest relevance ratings from participants. Ethical considerations and biases were either not considered relevant to their use case [F] or had not reflected on the issue at all [J,M]. Overall, ethical considerations and bias mitigation were not seen as pressing issues at the current stage of RAG development. However, this largely depended on the company: some regarded these aspects as relevant [B,C] with a rating above 8, while others did not [D,G,K] with a rating of 3. The relevance ratings varied widely in this regard. 4.3 RQ3: Identified Challenges and Lessons Learned First introduced in 2021 by [Lewis et al., 2021], RAG has since gained increasing popularity, as reflected in the number of companies adopting it over time (e.g., based on our interviews: 1 company in 2021, 3 in 2022, 6 in 2023, and 2 in 2024). Since their start, they encountered various challenges that have been subsequently summarized and categorized into four categories: the data management, the retrieval process, the generator component, and those related to the overall process, represented in Figure 2. Retriever GeneratorData Hallucination Prompt Engineering Data Variety Chunking Strategy Embedding StrategyAccess Mgmt. Fast Moving Technology Right Scope Selection Quality Evaluation Safety-related Issues Identity Recognition Figure 2: Overview Industry Challenges Data: One main issue is the data variety with the unstructured nature of the data, which is often dispersed across various systems and exists in different formats, such as PDFs, images, and other document types. Pre-processing this data and extracting relevant information requires substantial effort [A,E,I,M]. Another practical challenge identified was access management . Not all users should have access to all data,