specific requirements to achieve early results, while also addressing other important, but less critical, requirements for success during later stages of the RAG system’s development. They remain cautious about using LLMs due to concerns over potential hallucinations and misinformation, which could result in reputational damage. One possible reason mentioned for companies’ caution is that current RAG systems do not yet fully comply with the stringent requirements of the EU AI Act [Almada and Petit, 2025]. It became clear that companies are investing heavily in the development of RAG systems, driven by high expectations and strong confidence in this emerging technology: The primary motivation for companies to pilot and deploy such RAG systems is the expectation that they will enhance employee productivity by minimizing the time and effort spent on labor-intensive information retrieval tasks. This anticipated benefit is supported by a McKinsey report [Chui et al., 2012], which estimates that employees dedicate approximately 28% of their average workweek to searching for and gathering information. We identified several challenges faced by companies during the current phases of RAG implementation, along with a set of frequently mentioned technical recommendations. Existing research offers a wide range of RAG enhancement strategies [Zhao et al., 2024], which are also being adopted in industry practices. For example, enhancements in query transformation and critical techniques in data preparation, such as chunk optimization, have been adopted in industrial settings. Also, data preprocessing remains a significant challenge in developing RAG systems, though AI-driven tools and processes may offer valuable support in automating and optimizing these tasks [Sivathapandi, 2022]. However, some promising recent research findings have not yet been implemented in practice. Participants mentioned these only as part of future plans. For instance, this includes the implementation of agentic RAG systems [Singh et al., 2025b] or personalized RAGs for use over