of the RAG, where the system must present the sources of information transparently. Specifically, the retrieved documents supporting each part of the answer should be visible, allowing users to understand why the system generated a particular response based on these documents. Nine participants rated this requirement as relevant, assigning it a score of seven or higher. Performance covers aspects related to system speed and responsiveness. This requirement was generally not considered highly important by the participants. For example, Interviewee F mentioned that there are strategies to manage slower system responses, such as employing “thinking” delays that give the impression of a more thoughtful output. Overall, performance was not emphasized as a critical requirement, and most participants rated its relevance as low. Continuous Learning describes the ability of the RAG system to update and expand its knowledge base to stay current with new information. Initially, we grouped this requirement together with continuous operation, but during analysis, we identified them as distinct aspects. Continuous learning was considered particularly important in use cases where data freshness is critical. Continuous Operation encompasses the ability to maintain, monitor, and update the RAG system during deployment. For example, it was highlighted the importance of benchmarking the system regularly, especially after changes in data or system components [G,I,H]. Continuous operation includes tasks such as updating components or adjusting configurations while the system is live. While this requirement received moderate ratings, it was generally overshadowed by the higher importance placed on continuous learning. Therefore, continuous operation remains relevant but is considered of moderate priority compared to continuous learning. Integration in Setup describes the requirement that the RAG system can be seamlessly integrated into the existing technical infrastructure. For example, the company has contracts with a service provider, already uses its services, and prefers to remain within this environment.