of RAGs, Requirements for RAGs, Quality Assessment of RAGs, and Outcomes and Future Outlook, with mostly open questions and few closed questions, as recommended by [Adams, 2015]. Before conducting the semi-structured interviews, the interview guidelines were pilot-tested with one individual to refine the guide. We selected purposive sampling [Campbell et al., 2020] to contact companies from the authors’ network that apply LLMs. For selecting respondents and arranging interviews, we specifically request in our email that experts who have been directly involved in implementing a RAG system be identified. Furthermore, along with our request, we attached our interview questionnaire. We selected participants from diverse company sizes, domains, and experience levels to ensure a heterogeneous sample and gain domain-independent insights. The first author asked the questions following the questionnaire, while another author took notes and posed follow-up questions when responses were incomplete or when further clarification was needed. Additionally, each interview was fully recorded via Microsoft Teams, transcribed, and subsequently made available for detailed analysis. In total, 13 interviews were conducted between early April and early June 2025. Table 1 lists the main key facts of the individual participants, showing the wide variety of domains represented. Based on the gathered materials, we simultaneously started with the analysis of the interviews, using a five-step procedure described by [Schmidt, 2004]. 1. Firstly, we filter, separate, and summarize the interviews in a table-like to get a general overview and find similarities and distinctions. 2. Next, we draft analytical categories compiling them into a coding guide with definitions and variants, leading to the four RQs. 3. We then code the interview using predefined categories to enable comparison, making adjustments through team consensus when necessary. 4. After the coding, we present the total overview and mapping, in most cases, in a table-like way. 5. Finally, we conduct