when the num- ber of distinct entities and attributes in a prompt increases. In contrast, our autoregressive aug- mentation framework overcomes this limitation by dynamically retrieving patch-level visual features based on the evolving image context rather than the original prompt, enabling more targeted and effective augmentation. On Midjourney-30K, our proposed methods con- sistently outperform both Janus-Pro and Show-o baselines across all three evaluation metrics. No- tably, despite operating locally at the patch level, our approach leads to a significant reduction in FID 7 scores, indicating improved global visual quality and closer alignment with the distribution of real images. This suggests that context-aware, auto-regressive retrieval and refinement can propagate to enhance holistic image fidelity. Furthermore, the improvements in CMMD and FWD metrics confirm our method’s effectiveness in reducing visual distortions and enhancing coherence. These results also demonstrate that AR-RAG delivers robust and architecture-agnostic improvements, validating its broad applicability across different image generation backbones. 5.2 Qualitative Analysis A photo of a bench. A realistic portrait of taylor swift with a red scarf. The morning light filters cast a soft glow on a pair of high-top sneakers. A solitary camel slowly ambles beside a plush, round red couch. Janus-Pro DAiD FAiD A photo of a sheep. Figure 4: Qualitative results of DAiD, FAiD and baselines. Figure 4 illustrates these quan- titative improvements with rep- resentative examples from DPG- Bench (left three columns) and GenEval (right two columns). These examples demonstrate how autoregressive retrieval aug- mentation improves the vanilla image generation models. The vanilla model struggles with object interactions (e.g., col- umn 3, where shoes merge with a coffee machine in the background), complex structures (e.g., columns 2 and 5, where camels and sheep have anatom- ically incorrect numbers of or- gans), and implausible configu- rations (e.g., column 4, where a chair exhibits an