records and ap- proval workflows. Representing these relationships in a knowledge graph allows for intuitive navigation and explanation – for example, showing how a revenue figure is supported by a chain of contractual and operational evidence. 3 CHALLENGES In this section, we highlight the challenges of conducting XIR re- search in the audit domain, which relate to gathering realistic in- formation needs (Section 3.1), addressing data availability issues (Section 3.2), and determining appropriate ground truth explana- tions (Section 3.3). 3.1 Getting Realistic Information Needs As highlighted in Section 2.1, information needs are typically cap- tured through search queries and categorised using information need taxonomies. In open domains like web search or cooking, collecting such queries is relatively straightforward through crowd- sourcing platforms such as Prolific or MTurk [ 8, 16], logging in- teractions with search interfaces [ 23, 32], or conducting in-situ observational studies [18]. However, in specialised and high-stakes domains such as medicine and auditing, this becomes more difficult. These fields are closed, expert-driven environments where access is limited, making it challenging to log real user interactions or rely on crowdsourcing methods in a large scale. 3.2 Barriers to Using Real-World Audit Data As discussed in Section 2.3, developing effective retrieval algorithms requires careful consideration of how audit-relevant documents are structured. However, financial data is highly confidential, and com- panies operate under strict regulatory and compliance standards. As a result, they may be unwilling or not allowed to share real- world data for XIR research. This makes it challenging to design and evaluate explainable retrieval systems using realistic datasets. Releasing such data for reproducibility is equally difficult and may be only possible in anonymised form. Therefore, it is crucial to en- sure that anonymised datasets still retain enough fidelity to reflect real-world scenarios. For example, anonymised employee expense reports