visualisations or textual descriptions [1, 28] offering users varying levels of detail [1, 33, 51]. Most existing research focuses on domain-agnostic use cases. Search system explainability in specific domains, however, remains underexplored. While some studies have examined explainable IR in healthcare and medical applications [22], other critical fields, such as finance, law, and audit, have received little attention. Studying domain-specific applications is crucial, as each field has unique challenges and requirements. For instance, information needs in domains like cooking [17, 18] are expressed differently to those in web [5, 24] and mobile search [10]. This paper focuses on the audit domain, a critical yet underex- plored area in the IR community. Audits involve examining financial transactions for inconsistencies and fraud, requiring auditors to gather data from multiple sources, such as SAP tables and financial reports, and compile accurate reports detailing their findings. Audit- ing is complex, as it involves analysing large datasets and making informed decisions. Since every major company undergoes an an- nual audit, an explainable search system that supports auditors’ needs could provide significant benefits. By offering transparent and interpretable results, such a system could improve efficiency, enhance accuracy, and aid in fraud detection, ultimately saving costs and ensuring financial integrity. Therefore, we believe that explainable IR systems can assist auditors in generating comprehensive audit reports. The system should enable auditors to express complex information needs while providing transparent and interpretable retrieval results. This would help auditors assess the relevance of key financial documents and tables in their investigations. To advance research in this domain, we propose future research directions (see Section 2) and outline key challenges in XIR research for the audit context (see Section 3). 2 RESEARCH DIRECTIONS In this section, we outline key research directions to advance re- search on XIR in the audit domain.