(2024) dataset, and answering just 100 questions in- curs a cost of approximately $650 and 106 million tokens 1, which is an impractical overhead. To tackle the above limitations of GraphRAG, in this paper, we propose a novel graph-based RAG approach, called Attributed Community-based Hierarchical RAG (ArchRAG). ArchRAG leverages attributed communities (ACs) and introduces an efficient hierarchical retrieval strat- egy to adaptively support both abstract and specific ques- tions. To mitigateL1, we detect high-quality ACs by exploit- ing both links and the attributes of nodes, ensuring that each AC comprises nodes that are not only densely connected but also share similar semantic themes (2009). We further pro- pose a novel LLM-based iterative framework for hierarchi- cal AC detection, which can incorporate any existing com- munity detection methods (2009; 2019; 2007; 2007; 2016). In each iteration, we detect ACs based on both attribute sim- ilarity and connectivity, summarize each AC using an LLM, and construct a higher-level graph by treating each AC as a node, connecting pairs with similar summaries. By iterating the above steps multiple times, we obtain a set of ACs that can be organized into a hierarchical tree structure. To effectively address L2, we organize all ACs and en- tities into a hierarchical index and retrieve relevant ele- ments from all levels to support both abstract and specific questions. Entities offer fine-grained details, while LLM- generated AC summaries capture relational structures and provide high-level condensed overviews (2024; 2018), mak- ing them suitable for both multi-hop reasoning and abstract insight extraction. To support efficient retrieval across levels, we propose C-HNSW (Community-based HNSW), a novel hierarchical index inspired by the HNSW algorithm (2018) for approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) search. To mitigate the high generation cost caused by travers- ing all communities ( L3), we propose a hierarchical search with adaptive