ArchRAG: Attributed Community-based Hierarchical Retrieval-Augmented Generation Shu Wang1, Yixiang Fang1, Yingli Zhou1, Xilin Liu2, Yuchi Ma2, 1The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen 2Huawei Cloud Computing Technologies CO., LTD. {shuwang3, yinglizhou}@link.cuhk.edu.cn, fangyixiang@cuhk.edu.cn, {liuxilin3, mayuchi1}@huawei.com Abstract Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has proven effective in integrating external knowledge into large language models (LLMs) for solving question-answer (QA) tasks. The state- of-the-art RAG approaches often use the graph data as the external data since they capture the rich semantic informa- tion and link relationships between entities. However, exist- ing graph-based RAG approaches cannot accurately identify the relevant information from the graph and also consume large numbers of tokens in the online retrieval process. To address these issues, we introduce a novel graph-based RAG approach, called A ttributed C ommunity-based H ierarchical RAG (ArchRAG), by augmenting the question using at- tributed communities, and also introducing a novel LLM- based hierarchical clustering method. To retrieve the most rel- evant information from the graph for the question, we build a novel hierarchical index structure for the attributed communi- ties and develop an effective online retrieval method. Experi- mental results demonstrate that ArchRAG outperforms exist- ing methods in both accuracy and token cost. Introduction Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a core approach for enhancing large language models (LLMs) by enabling access to domain-specific and real-time updated knowledge beyond their pre-training corpus (2024; 2023; 2024; 2024; 2024b; 2024; 2024). By improving the trustwor- thiness and interpretability of LLMs, RAG has been widely adopted across a broad range of applications (2024a; 2024a; 2024; 2024; 2023; 2024; 2024b). Current state-of-the-art RAG approaches often use graph-structured data as exter- nal knowledge, due to its ability to capture the rich seman- tics and relationships. Given a question Q, the key idea of graph-based RAG is to retrieve relevant information (e.g., nodes, subgraphs,