(2019), and generates a summary for each community using LLMs. For abstract questions that require high-level information, it adopts a Global Search approach, traversing all communities and using LLMs to retrieve the most rel- evant summaries. In contrast, for specific questions, it em- ploys a Local Search method to retrieve entities, relevant text chunks, and low-level communities, providing the multi-hop detailed information for accurate answers. Although some methods claim that GraphRAG underper- forms and is difficult to apply in practice (2024; 2024a), our re-examination shows that it is primarily constrained by the following limitations ( L): L1. Low community qual- ity: GraphRAG uses the Leiden (2019) algorithm to detect communities, but this approach relies solely on graph struc- ture and ignores the rich semantics of nodes and edges. As a result, the detected communities often consist of differ- ent themes, which leads to the poor quality of community summaries and further decreases its performance. L2. Lim- ited compatibility : While GraphRAG employs Global and Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved. arXiv:2502.09891v3 [cs.IR] 8 Aug 2025 Local Search strategies, each retrieves graph elements at only one granularity, making it inadequate for simultane- ously addressing both abstract and specific questions and limiting its applicability in real-world open-ended scenar- ios. L3. High generation cost : Although GraphRAG per- forms well on abstract questions, analyzing all communities with LLMs is both time- and token-consuming. For exam- ple, GraphRAG detects 2,984 communities in the Multihop- RAG (2024) dataset, and answering just 100 questions in- curs a cost of approximately $650 and 106 million tokens 1, which is an impractical overhead. To tackle the above limitations of GraphRAG, in this paper, we propose a novel graph-based RAG approach, called Attributed Community-based Hierarchical RAG (ArchRAG). ArchRAG leverages attributed communities (ACs) and introduces an efficient hierarchical retrieval strat- egy