those of GPT-3.5-turbo (Dubey et al. 2024). GPT-4o-mini performs better than other LLM backbones because of its exceptional reasoning capabilities. Besides, we have compared several strong RAG baselines under different LLM backbones. As LLMs’ parameters and reasoning capabilities increase, all RAG approaches benefit from performance gains, especially HippoRAG. ArchRAG consistently achieves state-of-the-art performance across most settings. • Community quality of different clustering meth- ods. We evaluate the community quality of our proposed LLM-based hierarchical clustering framework using four clustering algorithms (weighted Leiden, Spectral Cluster- ing (V on Luxburg 2007), SCAN (Xu et al. 2007), and node2vec (Grover and Leskovec 2016) with KMeans), com- bined with two graph augmentation techniques (the KNN algorithm and CODICIL (Ruan, Fuhry, and Parthasarathy 2013)). The resulting communities are assessed using the Calinski-Harabasz Index (CHI) (Cali ´nski and Harabasz 1974) and Cosine Similarity (Sim) (Charikar 2002), where higher values indicate better quality. Further details on the clustering implementation and evaluation metrics can be found in the appendix. Figures 8 and 9 show that combin- ing KNN or CODICIL with the weighted Leiden algorithm significantly enhances community detection quality. • Effectiveness of our attributed clustering algorithm. To further demonstrate the effectiveness of our attributed KNN CODICIL LeidenSpectralSCANNode2Vec024CHI (a) Multihop-RAG LeidenSpectralSCANNode2Vec024CHI (b) HotpotQA Figure 8: Community quality evaluated by CH Index. KNN CODICIL LeidenSpectralSCANNode2Vec0.40.60.81Sim (a) Multihop-RAG LeidenSpectralSCANNode2Vec0.6 0.8 1Sim (b) HotpotQA Figure 9: Community quality evaluated by Cosine Similar- ity. clustering algorithm, we evaluate the quality of communities (i.e., CHI and Cosine Similarity) generated by our attributed clustering algorithm compared to those produced by the Lei- den algorithm, which is used in GraphRAG for structural clustering. As shown in Table 7, our attribute-based cluster- ing consistently yields higher-quality communities. • More experiments on the additional dataset. We further conduct experiments on the RAG-QA Arena dataset (Han et al.