mak- ing them suitable for both multi-hop reasoning and abstract insight extraction. To support efficient retrieval across levels, we propose C-HNSW (Community-based HNSW), a novel hierarchical index inspired by the HNSW algorithm (2018) for approximate nearest neighbor (ANN) search. To mitigate the high generation cost caused by travers- ing all communities ( L3), we propose a hierarchical search with adaptive filtering to efficiently select the most relevant ACs and entities while maintaining performance. Specifi- cally, we design an efficient hierarchical retrieval algorithm over the proposed C-HNSW index, which supports top- k nearest neighbor search across multiple levels, thereby fa- cilitating access to multi-level relevant information. Further- more, the adaptive filtering mechanism identifies the most informative results at each level, making the retrieved infor- mation complementary. We have extensively evaluated ArchRAG on real-world datasets, and the results show that it consistently outper- forms existing methods in both abstract and specific QA tasks. ArchRAG achieves a 10% higher accuracy than 1The cost of GPT-4o is $10/M tokens for output and $2.50/M tokens for input (for details, please refer to OpenAI pricing). state-of-the-art graph-based RAG methods on specific ques- tions and shows notable gains on abstract QA. Moreover, ArchRAG is very token-efficient, saving up to 250 times the token usage compared to GraphRAG (2024). In summary, our main contributions are as follows: • We present a novel graph-based RAG approach by using ACs that are organized hierarchically and detected by an LLM-based hierarchical clustering method. • To index ACs, we propose a novel hierarchical index structure called C-HNSW and also develop an efficient online retrieval method. • Extensive experiments show that ArchRAG is both highly effective and efficient, and achieves state-of-the- art performance on both abstract and specific QA tasks. Related Work In this section, we review the related works, includ- ing Retrieval-Augmentation-Generation