relevant branches are sufficiently high, this issue becomes less pronounced. In summary, GR models relying on the sum of sub-tree values for ranking branches struggle to achieve high recall performance while maintaining top-1 precision. 4.3 Concentration as a trade-off factor We find a common dependence on the concentration of relevance distribution from both components, i.e., the Simpson diversity in- dex, and the thickness of the tail distribution. However, the con- centration takes effect in opposite directions. Less concentrated distribution is more stable against sampling and thus have better alignment with the ground-truth constrained marginal distribution. In contrast, high concentration reduces the false positive branches and thus improve the recall performance using beam search, but it requires an accurate marginal distribution. 5 Difficulty of concentration in Bayes-optimal GR While increasing the degree of concentration is a promising ap- proach to improve recall performance on the complete corpus—if the effects of constraints are ignored—achieving this in the context of Bayes-optimal GR is still challenging. In this section, we show details about the challenge in the context of Bayes-optimal GR in two directions: (1) Aggregation: Aggregating relevant documents within a narrow branch to ensure that its value significantly exceeds that of others throughout the generation process. (2) Amplification: Amplifying the scores of relevant documents relative to non-relevant ones, so that the branch value serves as a reliable sketch for branch quality. While these strategies have shown their effectiveness [24, 61] on small scale, in-domain datasets, they are much more challenging to implement in Bayes-optimal GR models. Specifically, as we will discuss, achieving this concentrated structure requires additional computational and data resources beyond those needed to obtain the Bayes-optimal model itself. Detailed discussions are shown in the following. 5.1 Aggregation introduces redundancy Although the corpus size |D | = 𝑘𝑚 is sufficiently large, the