the information retrieval community. Generalization remains a challenge for GR, especially when ap- plied to out-of-distribution corpora [2, 11, 22, 27, 31, 32, 46]. Pre- vious research attributes this challenges to limited model capac- ity [22, 60], lack of learning in the docID construction [46, 57, 66], and difficulties in learning semantic representations [ 47, 53]. In contrast, our work focuses on the constrained auto-regressive de- coding strategy widely applied in GR, which is crucial for adapting GR models to new corpora dynamically. Our setting aligns closely to the few-shot indexing approach [2], where a pre-trained LLM generates docIDs solely based on its pre-trained knowledge and generalization capabilities, without additional training. We treat their method as a conceptual blueprint for a fully generalizable GR system and aim to investigate the inference stage under this setting. Updatable generative retrieval is another critical task on dynamic corpora. The primary challenges indicate the cost of updating the model with new documents and the catastrophic forgetting prob- lem [11, 17, 21, 33]. Previous efforts have concentrated on devel- oping efficient continual learning strategies by fixing the indexing construction procedure. We consider an idealized scenario where the model has full knowledge of all possible documents and focuses solely on generating relevant docIDs on dynamic corpus. Constrained decoding. Constrained decoding has been widely studied for guiding machine learning models to produce outputs that satisfy specific conditions [1, 37]. Instead of learning to sat- isfy through training, constraints are more often preferable only in the inference time due to the flexibility and efficiency. Nishino et al. [40, 41] demonstrate the preservation of relative errors of certain loss functions in realizable setting. We instead provide a failure case via establishing the existence of a lower-bound error for auto-regressive models operating under step-wise inference-time constraints. Recent work on controllable