in-depth discussion and analysis of these findings. Finally, the paper concludes with final thoughts and a discussion of potential avenues for future research in Section 6. 2. Literature Review Academic guidance is an essential element in the work of a data scientist, providing a framework for grasping existing research and directing new, creative project directions. Engaging with scholarly articles allows data scientists to identify established methodologies, discern gaps in current research, and draw connections between their specific challenges and those addressed in prior studies. This process is essential for both refining research questions and selecting or adjusting methods for data analysis and model development. As noted by [24], data scientists heavily depend on the literature to assess what has been accomplished, determine whether similar problems have been addressed, and find solutions to related challenges. In recent years, the volume of literature on AI and machine learning has expanded rapidly, with publications doubling approximately every 23 months as of 2022 [16]. This continual growth has resulted in an overwhelming amount of information for data scientists to sift through. The difficulty of pinpointing the most relevant and high-quality articles amid the vast number of publications adds complexity to the task. Consequently, data scientists often rely on keyword searches or similar techniques, which may be inadequate due to the difficulty in crafting effective search queries. They may struggle to identify the appropriate terms or strategies to locate relevant articles efficiently and promptly, leading to potential gaps in their literature reviews [24]. A promising approach to addressing the challenge of navigating the extensive litera- ture in data science is Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) [18]. RAG’s capacity to access external knowledge bases makes it a valuable tool for managing and comprehending the vast literature in the field. The integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) within the