ments •Social media sites like Facebook and Twitter have emerged as popu- lar destinations for users to get real-time news about the world around them. On these sites, users are increasingly relying on crowdsourced recommendations called Trending Topics to find important events and breaking news stories. Typically topics, including key phrases and key- words (e.g., hashtags), are recommended as trending when they exhibit a sharp spike in their popularity, i.e., their usage by the crowds suddenly jumps at a particular time (Twitter 2010). Once a topic is selected as trending, it gets prominently displayed on social media homepages, thus reaching a large user population. Additionally, traditional news organi- zations often pick trending topics and cover them in their news stories (a practice termed Hashtag journalism), further amplifying their reach. Recognizing their importance, •Benevenuto, F., Magno, G., Rodrigues, T., and Almeida, V. 2010. “Detecting spammers on Twitter,” in Collaboration, electronic messag- ing, anti-abuse and spam conference, pp. 12-21. Bermingham, A., and Smeaton, A. F. 2011. “On using Twitter to monitor political sentiment and predict election results,” in Proceedings of the Sentiment Analy- sis where AI meets Psychology Workshop. Bollen, J., Mao, H., and Zeng, X. 2011. “Twitter mood predicts the stock market,” Journal of Computational Science (2:1), pp. 1-8. Cha, M., Haddadi, H., Ben- evenuto, F., and Gummadi, P. K. 2010. “Measuring User Influence in Twitter: The Million Follower Fallacy,” in Proceedings of the Fourth International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media, pp. 10- 17. Culotta, A. 2013. “Lightweight methods to estimate influenza rates and alcohol sales volume from Twitter messages,” Language resources and evaluation (47:1), pp. 217-238. Dann, S. 2010. “Twitter content classification,” First Monday (15:12). Consider using transformer-based models like BERT or GPT for more insight- ful trend analysis in social media. These models excel in under- standing