and intent. Each stage of our approach contributes to refining different aspects of the RAG system, from data cleaning and embedding fine-tuning to semantic chunking, abstract-first retrieval, and advanced prompting techniques. Collectively, these innovations have the potential to sig- nificantly reduce information overload and improve the contextual relevance of responses, thereby providing a robust solution to the common challenges encountered by traditional 5 RAG models. A key component of our approach is the use of GROBID [22], an open-source tool renowned for its accuracy in reference parsing and metadata extraction. GROBID is uti- lized in our application to structure and clean data from PDFs, ensuring the information is well-organized before being embedded into our vector database. A study evaluating multiple reference parsing tools demonstrated that GROBID outperformed its peers, achieving the highest F1 score of 0.89 among the ten tools tested [36]. This high level of precision is crucial for maintaining the quality of metadata and ensuring that a RAG system delivers accurate and contextually appropriate responses. Moreover, GROBID’s success in various contexts, such as automated metadata extraction in the CERN Document Server and citation gener- ation in CiteAssist, further underscores its versatility and reliability [13, 4]. In the second stage of our approach, we emphasize the fine-tuning of the embedding model to enhance its capability to accurately retrieve domain-specific information, a critical step in improving the overall effectiveness of our RAG application. This fine-tuning process draws on methodologies from recent studies, which highlight the importance of adapting models to the specific contexts in which they are applied. For instance, [28] demonstrated how domain- specific fine-tuning significantly improved retrieval accuracy for technical documentation in Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools by benchmarking the performance of various models. Similarly, [25] combined fine-tuning with iterative reasoning in a Q&A system, allowing for progressively