generated using the retrieved context, but since the language model used for answer generation remained unchanged, these metrics are less indicative of improvements brought by the fine-tuning process and other retrieval enhance- ments. Therefore, Context Relevance serves as the most appropriate measure to demonstrate advancements in retrieval capabilities across different configurations. This paper makes two primary contributions. First, it introduces an enhanced RAG ar- chitecture and systematically evaluates the impact of each component on performance using key metrics within the RAGAS framework, based on a specially prepared test set of relevant questions. Second, it provides a focused analysis of the fine-tuning process, characterized by its experimental flexibility and diverse potential approaches. This analysis involves exploring various alternative configurations by altering data sources and preprocessing techniques to allow for a detailed assessment of how different fine-tuning strategies influence the metrics. The most effective configurations are then integrated into the overall evaluation of the pro- posed architecture, which contributes to a comprehensive understanding of each component’s role in system performance. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: The next section reviews the literature on RAG and outlines the components of the five-stage enhancement process, highlighting existing research gaps. In Section 3, we introduce the enhanced RAG architecture and the metrics used to evaluate the performance of various alternatives. Section 4 presents a 3 detailed overview of the key findings from the experimental analysis. In the following section, we provide an in-depth discussion and analysis of these findings. Finally, the paper concludes with final thoughts and a discussion of potential avenues for future research in Section 6. 2. Literature Review Academic guidance is an essential element in the work of a data scientist, providing a framework for grasping existing research and directing new, creative project directions. Engaging with scholarly articles allows