text while eliminating relatively less 9 relevant data such as figures, symbols, and extraneous spaces. To accomplish this, we used GROBID (GeneRation Of BIbliographic Data), a machine-learning-based tool that excels in extracting, parsing, and restructuring raw documents into clean, structured text [22] as previously mentioned. This step was critical because the original data contained numer- ous non-text elements that could degrade the quality of the vector database. By ensuring that the data is well-organized and free from noise, GROBID seeks to establish a basis for producing accurate and significant vector embeddings. 3.3. Fine-tuning The second stage focused on fine-tuning the embedding model to improve its ability to capture domain-specific nuances to ensure that both the articles and queries were embedded in a manner that accurately reflected the complexities of data science and academic literature. Given that the embedding model is essential for converting both queries and articles into vectors for storage in the vector database, the model needed to be proficient in understanding complex academic language. We conducted a series of experiments to fine-tune the ”sentence- transformers/all-mpnet-base-v2” model using a range of textbooks and various techniques [11]. These experiments included: 1. Experiment 1: Fine-tuning with 5 textbooks. 2. Experiment 2: Fine-tuning with 17 textbooks. 3. Experiment 3: Fine-tuning with 5 textbooks, incorporating GROBID for additional data cleaning. 4. Experiment 4: Fine-tuning with 17 textbooks, incorporating GROBID for additional data cleaning. 5. Experiment 5: Combining 17 textbooks, GROBID, and Semantic NodeSplitter. The textbooks, listed in Appendix B and Appendix C, cover the same topics as our ques- tion set, ensuring that the fine-tuned models were well-aligned with the content they were intended to process. The fine-tuning process involved converting each textbook into nodes —coherent segments of text—and then generating question-answer pairs for each node us- ing the OpenAI API. GROBID, which