Architecture researchers to share their scientific and academic papers before undergoing the peer-review process [15]. For the analysis, each test question was first translated into a detailed search query, compatible with the arXiv API. This conversion process was facilitated by GPT-4o using a specific prompt designed to condense each question into a targeted search query: ”Transform the following detailed inquiry into a concise and focused research query suitable for academic search databases. The summary should highlight the main topic, applicable domain, and specific requirements or goals in a maximum of 10 words.” This approach en- sured that each search term accurately represented the specific research objective associated with each question. Approximately 100 relevant articles were selected for each question, resulting in a dataset comprising roughly 5,000 articles. The content of the selected articles was downloaded as PDF files and subsequently used in the data-cleaning step. In parallel, the metadata for each article —such as publication date, title, authors, and abstracts— retrieved from the arXiv API, was also utilized. Following data cleaning, both the cleaned article content and the associated metadata were systematically integrated into the vector database. This process ensured that the database facilitated structured retrieval by academic standards. 3.2. Data Cleaning using GROBID Upon acquiring the articles, we initiated our five-stage enhancement process, starting with data cleaning. Since the articles retrieved from the arXiv database were in PDF for- mat, it was necessary to parse and convert them into text while eliminating relatively less 9 relevant data such as figures, symbols, and extraneous spaces. To accomplish this, we used GROBID (GeneRation Of BIbliographic Data), a machine-learning-based tool that excels in extracting, parsing, and restructuring raw documents into clean, structured text [22] as previously mentioned. This step was critical because the original data contained numer- ous non-text elements that could