decompose complex visual questions into simpler, semantically coherent parts. This approach significantly enhanced the model’s ability to interpret and respond accurately by linking these chunks to external knowledge sources. Consequently in the enhanced RAG architecture we considered integrating a similar seman- tic chunking technique to maintain high levels of contextual accuracy and relevance, ensuring that the information retrieved and presented is both coherent and directly applicable to the user’s query. In the fourth stage of our enhancement process, we introduce an ”abstract-first” method for RAG applications, which prioritizes searches within a separate vector database of article abstracts. This approach is intended to enhance the retrieval process by concentrating on the most concise and relevant sections of academic papers, which are the abstracts. The 6 rationale behind this method is that abstracts typically provide a clear and succinct summary of the research, capturing the core findings and methodologies. Consequently, many existing datasets used for Named Entity Recognition (NER) models, which are essential for NLP tasks such as information extraction, concentrate solely on abstracts and preselected texts [27]. This strategy mirrors the natural tendency of researchers to first read abstracts when assessing the relevance of a paper [31]. By targeting these sections first, a RAG application can quickly and efficiently determine the relevance of a document, thereby improving retrieval efficiency and reducing computational load. This approach is particularly advantageous in fields where quick access to respective information is critical, addressing the common challenge of exploring large volumes of full-text content to identify key insights. The abstract- first method thus potentially represents a significant advancement in the design of RAG systems, offering a sophisticated alternative to traditional full-text search strategies. In the fifth stage of our enhancement process, we implement advanced prompting tech- niques to optimize the responses generated by our RAG application.