by transforming how information is processed and decisions are made. However, a significant drawback of LLMs is their current tendency to produce ”hallucinations” (i.e., inaccurate or misleading outputs), which can undermine trust in their applications. To address this issue, ongoing research explores Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) as a promising solution to mitigate these inaccuracies. Moreover, across various disciplines, practitioners, and researchers are actively seeking to harness the capa- bilities of LLMs, particularly as intelligent assistants to enhance decision-making processes. RAG can potentially improve the effectiveness of intelligent assistants by integrating relevant Email address: ahmet.aytar@sabanciuniv.edu, kamer.kaya@sabanciuniv.edu, kemal.kilic@sabanciuniv.edu arXiv:2412.15404v1 [cs.IR] 19 Dec 2024 information from external sources, allowing for more accurate and contextually appropriate responses. Data science, as a critical field in the realm of digital transformation that relies on data-driven insights, is no exception; it stands to benefit from advancements in LLM technology while addressing its inherent weaknesses. Data science is an exploratory process that necessitates the formulation and validation of hypotheses using historical datasets. The models developed by data scientists essentially represent these hypotheses, and creating effective models relies on the formulation of per- tinent questions. Therefore, data scientists benefit from exposure to various alternatives, and academic literature serves as a vital resource that enhances their creative thinking abil- ities. However, as data science continuously evolves, it generates an overwhelming volume of research, making the efficient access to and utilization of academic literature increasingly challenging. This surge in available information complicates the ability of researchers and practitioners to identify and integrate relevant insights into their work, highlighting the need for effective tools and strategies to navigate this expanding landscape. To mitigate this issue, in this research, we have developed a RAG application specifically designed to aid data scientists in navigating academic resources and obtaining guidance tailored to their unique needs. This