Information Retrieval from the Digitized Books Riya Gupta IIIT Hyderabad India riyagupta771995@gmail.com C.V . Jawahar IIIT Hyderabad India jawahar@iiit.ac.in Abstract Extracting the relevant information out of a large num- ber of documents is a challenging and tedious task. The quality of results generated by the traditionally available full-text search engine and text-based image retrieval sys- tems is not optimal. Information retrieval (IR) tasks become more challenging with the nontraditional language scripts, as in the case of Indic scripts. The authors have devel- oped OCR (Optical Character Recognition) Search Engine to make an Information Retrieval & Extraction (IRE) system that replicates the current state-of-the-art methods using the IRE and Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques. Here we have presented the study of the methods used for performing search and retrieval tasks. The details of this system, along with the statistics of the dataset (source: Na- tional Digital Library of India or NDLI), is also presented. Additionally, the ideas to further explore and add value to research in IRE are also discussed. Keywords Optical Character Recognition, Information Retrieval & Extraction, Metadata, Search Engine, Search Engine Opti- mization 1. Introduction Often the information retrieval systems designed to pro- vide and assist the general populace with texts in different languages that are either not optimized or lack advanced language features, like getting similar results to a query. Even for the big digital database like Google Books, the contextual and semantic information is not available for the desired query. Short queries might not explain the full in- tent behind the search. However, suppose the Information Retrieval and Extraction systems (IRE) can be made capa- ble in terms of obtaining semantically and contextually rich information from the ocean of data. In that case, it will im- prove the user experience. It will also help in the direction