Dinithi Dissanayake and Suranga Nanayakkara cognition in ways that feel seamless and natural, preserving a sense of agency while fostering deeper intellectual engagement. 4 Call to Action This paper presents a case for the importance of context awareness in AI-driven cognitive interventions. We introduce the concept of Cognitive Flow Alignment, emphasizing that interventions are most effective when they dynamically adjust to an individual’s cognitive state, neither disrupting engagement nor allowing stagnation. Using insights from flow theory, we argue that AI systems should infer behavioral cues from multimodal data to sustain an optimal cognitive state. While current AI-based augmentation focuses on task performance and engagement metrics, we propose that future systems should be evaluated on their ability to contextually regulate cognitive flow. This requires a shift from static intervention strategies to adaptive models that personalize intervention type, intensity, and timing based on real-time user states. We advocate for a mixed-method evaluation framework combining behavioral analytics with subjective feedback to refine personalized intervention strategies that optimize cognitive augmentation while respecting individual differences in engagement and cognitive load. References [1] Julián N Acosta, Guido J Falcone, Pranav Rajpurkar, and Eric J Topol. 2022. Multimodal biomedical AI. Nature medicine 28, 9 (2022), 1773–1784. [2] Go-Eum Cha and Byung-Cheol Min. 2022. Correlation between unconscious mouse actions and human cognitive workload. In CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems Extended Abstracts . 1–7. [3] Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi and Mihaly Csikzentmihaly. 1990. Flow: The psychology of optimal experience . Vol. 1990. Harper & Row New York. [4] Valdemar Danry, Pat Pataranutaporn, Yaoli Mao, and Pattie Maes. 2020. Wearable Reasoner: towards enhanced human rationality through a wearable device with an explainable AI assistant. In Proceedings of the Augmented Humans International Conference . 1–12. [5] Valdemar Danry, Pat Pataranutaporn, Yaoli Mao, and Pattie Maes. 2023. Don’t just tell me,