the challenge the game presents. A game that appropriately matches a player’s skill level fosters a sense of engagement, encouraging continued play. Similarly, any new intervention or augmentation should support the user in either attaining or maintaining the state of flow of whatever the current task the user is engaged in. In the domain of AI-augmented reasoning systems, the goal is to enhance human decision-making by providing intelligent feedback on logical reasoning, bias detection, and argumentation [4, 5, 7]. The effectiveness of such systems depends on several factors, with the type, timing, and scale of the intervention playing crucial roles in determining the quality of the augmentation. For example, poorly timed or intrusive interventions can disrupt a user’s state of cognitive flow (whereby we define the optimal cognitive state one would prefer), leading to disengagement rather than improving reasoning. Current AI reasoning assistants often adopt a static or one-size-fits-all approach, assuming that interventions should be uniformly applied across all users [4]. However, individuals respond to cognitive support in diverse ways [10]. Some may prefer direct interventions, such as explicit fact-checking and counterarguments, while others may benefit from Socratic questioning, which promotes self-guided reflection. The timing of the intervention is equally significant—interrupting a user mid-thought with a suggestion can break their focus, whereas the ability to understand subtle nudges, such as gaze-based or gesture-based cues, might be able to guide the intervention to present their reasoning seamlessly without causing disruption. Thereby, we identify three key factors that impact the effectiveness of these interventions: This paper was presented at the 2025 ACM Workshop on Human-AI Interaction for Augmented Reasoning (AIREASONING-2025-01). This is the authors’ version for arXiv. Authors’ Contact Information: Dinithi Dissanayake, dinithi@ahlab.org, Augmented Human Lab, National University of Singapore, Singapore; Suranga Nanayakkara, suranga@ahlab.org, Augmented Human Lab, National University of Singapore, Singapore.