we identify three key factors that impact the effectiveness of these interventions: This paper was presented at the 2025 ACM Workshop on Human-AI Interaction for Augmented Reasoning (AIREASONING-2025-01). This is the authors’ version for arXiv. Authors’ Contact Information: Dinithi Dissanayake, dinithi@ahlab.org, Augmented Human Lab, National University of Singapore, Singapore; Suranga Nanayakkara, suranga@ahlab.org, Augmented Human Lab, National University of Singapore, Singapore. 1 arXiv:2504.16021v1 [cs.HC] 22 Apr 2025 2 Dinithi Dissanayake and Suranga Nanayakkara • Type of intervention : Some individuals may prefer direct feedback, while others may respond better to Socratic questioning. • Timing of intervention: Understanding when users are "stuck" through subtle cues, such as gaze or gesture- based signals, is critical. • Scale of intervention: The magnitude of the intervention—whether subtle or more direct—also determines its impact. These three factors; type, timing, and scale, determine the effectiveness of interventions, which can be broadly categorized under the concept of context. This paper proposes that context-aware reasoning interventions should be designed to dynamically adapt based on real-time user engagement signals, ensuring that interventions enhance rather than disrupt the cognitive flow. Contextual awareness plays a pivotal role in identifying the appropriate type, timing, and scale of interventions, thus enabling personalized cognitive assistance. By maintaining this balance, the intervention fosters a sense of autonomy in task completion, ensuring that users feel they have accomplished the task themselves, rather than perceiving it as something imposed by an external system, thus supporting the notion of assistive augmentation [9]. With recent developments in multimodal AI models [1, 6, 11], deriving contextual awareness becomes a matter of mapping input modalities to cognitive assistance and understanding when, what, and how to intervene. By leveraging multimodal cues, such as gaze behavior, typing hesitation, and interaction patterns, AI systems can infer cognitive load and deliver interventions at moments that sustain