-book LLMs struggle with domain-specific questions, highlighting the need for RAG systems to address these chall enges. Furthermore, there is room for RAG models to enhance their abilities in understanding conversational history, analyzing structured information, reducing noise, processing multi -document interactions, and maintaining fidelity to specialized knowledge. As previously noted, unfortunately, most efforts in this field have focused on English as the natural language of input data (including the language of user queries and the stored knowledge) in their experiments. In other cases reviewed as related works i n this section, solutions for implementing multilingual RAG have been proposed, and the importance of parameter tuning and prompt engineering in multilingual RAG is evident. Additionally, the implementation of RAG for the Arabic language particularly the embedding process, given that it shares the same script as Persian has been examined, which can illuminate the path for the research process of Persian RAG, considering the shared script with Arabic. V. CHALLENGES A. Reading Persian PDFs without character distortion Reading Persian PDFs presents a major challenge for RAG systems. This challenge arises particularly due to the presence of half-space characters and the Persian 'یas well as specific encodings used in certain organizations. As a result, when extracting text from Persian PDFs, the text might become completely scrambled, or characters might incorrectly stick together or be separated. For example, the character "ه " might be written separately, or "یmay display incorrectly. These problems significantly hin der the comprehension of text by large language models, and the more non -standard or problematic data there is, the lower the accuracy of the entire pipeline. Additionally, some organizations or companies maintain their PDFs as scanned copies with no access to the original Text version. For these types of files, advanced image-to-text conversion models and various (Optical Character Recognition)