using positive and negative query-response pairs [8, 9]. The choice and combination of techniques at each stage profoundly affect the effectiveness and efficiency of RAG systems. Furthermore, according to the latest reviews, there no research on optimizing RAG implementations for Persian languages, with a focus on core components such as retrieval, embedding, and generative models. Historically, most NLP research and development have focused on English, resulting in a shortage of resources, tools, and datasets for other languages. Consequently, the development of advanced NLP systems for languages like Persian lags behind the growing need for such technologies. This paper provides the PersianRAG framework as a real implementation of Persian RAG system through addressing several challenges. The various stages of developing the PersianRAG system includes, data preprocessing, embedding, retrieval, generation and hyperparameter optimization. In proposing PersianRAG, we introduce innovative approaches tailored to the Persian language. These approaches include using advanced tools for Persian text processing, optimizing document segmentation strategies to accommodate Persian language characteristics, selecting and fine-tuning appropriate embedding models for semantic representation in both unstructured text and structured data such as tables, and designing effective strategies to reduce hallucinations in generated responses. Moreover, we emphasize the importance of rig orous system performance evaluation using Persian - specific datasets to ensure the reliability and accuracy of the PersianRAG system with several datasets introduced in this research. II. RETRIEVAL AUGMENTED GENERATION RAG helps produce more accurate and comprehensive responses by combining two approaches retrieval and generation. Unlike purely generative models that respond solely based on their training data, RAG can refer to external knowledge bases and retrieve real-time, accurate information to enhance its responses. In this architecture: • Information retrieval is a process that extracts relevant external knowledge related to the user's query, rather than focusing on information that the language model can