Lack of Factoid Datasets for Evaluating RAG Systems One of the fundamental challenges in developing RAG systems for low-resource languages, including Persian, is the lack of appropriate factoid datasets and sufficient evaluation mechanisms. This deficiency makes it challenging to accurately assess the model 's performance in generating correct and relevant responses. In this research, considering a gradual approach in system development from a general state towards a specific domain (documents and educational data) datasets appropriate for each stage have bee n designed and employed. To address this challenge and gain a more precise understanding of the RAG system's performance when handling factoid questions in Persian, two key datasets have been developed and utilized: A new dataset Derived from PersianQuAD: This dataset comprises unique paragraphs extracted from the PersianQuAD dataset. These paragraphs are presented to the RAG system as a collection of documents, and the system's performance is evaluated based on the questions and answers available in Per sianQuAD. This approach enables the assessment of the system's efficiency in responding to factoid questions in Persian within the realm of general inquiries. The structure of this dataset includes columns for the pa ragraph, expected answer, question, and title. TABLE IV. STRUCTURE OF THE PERSIANQUAD DATASET gold_answer question paragraph The expected answer Question posed to the model Paragraph containing the question and answer PorsemanQuad Dataset: This dataset, extracted from a collection of regulations and guidelines from the University of Isfahan, consists of 50 pairs of questions and answers. The structure of this dataset includes columns for the question, answer, related paragraph, question type (factoid from a table or plain text), and the document name. Designed to evaluate the RAG system's performance when dealing with university regulations in Persian, this dataset enables a more focused assessment of factoid questions. The responses generated by the