retrieval and generation. Unlike purely generative models that respond solely based on their training data, RAG can refer to external knowledge bases and retrieve real-time, accurate information to enhance its responses. In this architecture: • Information retrieval is a process that extracts relevant external knowledge related to the user's query, rather than focusing on information that the language model can easily understand. It aims to find the most relevant pieces of knowledge to support the model’s response generation. • The RAG approach, which combines retrieved information with the language model’s ability to understand and generate human -like text, leads to more accurate and relevant results. This method is particularly useful in domains requiring deep and up- to-date knowle dge, such as medicine, law, and science, where it can improve response quality and reduce errors in language models. This reception from RAG systems was primarily due to two factors: first, the impressive capabilities offered by LLMs, and second, because it combines the strengths of retrieval-based and generation-based models to improve text generation tasks. Essentially, the advantage of using RAG lies in leveraging the power of LLMs to generate responses based on documents that these LLMs may not have previously seen or been trained on. In specific domains, this means obtaining high -quality and precise answers to questions for which an LLM might not have an inherent response. III. PERSIANRAG ARCHITECTURE Despite major advancements in the capabilities of language models, RAG remains a highly relevant and efficient option for generating accurate and enriched responses by incorporating information from external sources. Despite the proven effectiveness of RAG in question-answering systems, multilingual RAG and specifically RAG in Persian, a language with unique characteristics and resource limitations has received less emphasis in research, despite its importance and widespread application. Nevertheless, recent studies have begun to