PersianRAG: A Retrieval-Augmented Generation System for Persian Language Hossein Hosseini Department of software engineering, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran h.hosseini@eng.ui.ac.ir Arefeh Kazemi ADAPT Research Centre, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland arefeh.kazemi@dcu.ie Mohammad Sobhan Zare Department of software engineering, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran s.zare@eng.ui.ac.ir Zahra Zojaji Department of software engineering, Faculty of Computer Engineering, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran z.zojaji@eng.ui.ac.ir Amir Hossein Mohammadi Department of software engineering, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran a.mohammadighahderijani@eng.ui.ac.ir Mohammad Ali Nematbakhsh Department of software engineering, Faculty of Computer Engineering, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran Nematbakhsh@eng.ui.ac.ir Abstract— Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) models, which integrate large -scale pre-trained generative models with external retrieval mechanisms, have shown significant success in various natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, applying RAG models in Pe rsian language as a low -resource language, poses distinct challenges. These challenges primarily involve the preprocessing, embedding, retrieval, prompt construction, language modeling, and response evaluation of the system. In this paper, we address the c hallenges towards implementing a real -world RAG system for Persian language called PersianRAG . We propose novel solutions to overcome these obstacles and evaluate our approach using several Persian benchmark datasets. Our experimental results demonstrate the capability of the PersianRAG framework to enhance question answering task in Persian. Keywords—Retrieval Augmented Generation, Large Language Models, , Persian, PersianRAG. I. INTRODUCTION In recent years, the field of NLP has witnessed significant advancements, especially in the development of LLMs capable of generating coherent and contextually relevant text. Despite their impressive capabilities, generative language models often tend to provide outdated information or fabricate facts a phenomenon commonly referred to as "Hallucination". This limitation persists even when models are aligned with human preferences through reinforcement learning [1] or style alignment techniques [1-4]. RAG systems have emerged as a promising solution to these challenges. By integrating the