stages, such as data processing, vector transformations, and information retrieval, this compone nt helps the system operate at maximum efficiency. These optimizations can include parameters like the Top K, which refers to the number of most relevant and similar results retrieved from the documents, embedding dimensions, the number of retrieved chunks , chunk size, chunk overlap, and other key variables. IV. RELATED WORKS Recently, the concept of RAG, as a hybrid approach that integrates information retrieval with natural language generation, has garnered significant attention. In 2020, Lewis et al. [1] introduced this concept . Introduced the RAG framework to address the limited capabilities of pre -trained language models and to enhance the model's ability to generate informed and relevant responses, which was remarkably well-received. Since there is little or no work in implementing RAG for Persian, in this section we review similar research in Non-English languages. For example, the study presented in [4] discusses the application of RAG in multilingual settings, focusing specifically on improving the performance of RAG models when working with non-English languages. In the research by Nadezhda Chirkova et al., the importance of making specific configurations and considering particular components necessary for multilingual RAG is addressed. The article mentions that deploying high -quality RAG in multilingual settings requires access to robust multilingual retrievers and generators, as well as high -quality m ultilingual evaluation. The generative component must be able to produce text fluently and correctly in the user's language, while also understanding documents in different languages and following instructions specified in the prompt. While recent advancements in NLP and information retrieval have made suitable candidate components available, this article introduces a multilingual RAG pipeline that claims to have not been previously evaluated in the literature. Therefore, it can serve as an appropriate starting point for designing a