a complete RAG system, it offers a clear pathway for understanding semantic embedding models in designing a multilingual RAG system, and particularly RAG in the Pe rsian language, which shares the same script as Arabic. As the last work reviewed in the Arabic language, we can refer to the research conducted by Ali Mahbub et al. [15]. The paper, focusing on semantic search in Arabic, strives to create a simple yet robust benchmark for semantic search in the Arabic language. The importance of semantic search is emphasized in this article, noting that semantic search interprets the meanings and relationships between words with the aim of mimicking human understanding. This enhances user experience in various applications, including web search engines, personalized content recommendation systems, and also RAG. The article further discusse s that by combining a sophisticated retrieval mechanism with a powerful generation model, RAG systems can produce accurate and contextually relevant responses, significantly improving the limitations of standalone language models in terms of accuracy and human- like text generation. Integrating semantic search into RAG systems is crucial, especially for processing complex queries or those requiring deep contextual understanding, making it a cornerstone for enhancing retrieval accuracy and the quality of gene rated content. However, similar to other reviewed works and like most research efforts in NLP tasks, Arabic semantic search and RAG lag behind other languages due to challenges inherent in the Arabic language, including complex morphology, the diversity of its dialects, and the scarcity of datasets [16, 17]. Ultimately, the goal of this paper was to evaluate the effectiveness of semantic search in Arabic language processing alongside its impact on the performance of RAG systems specifically designed for Arabic question - answering use cases. Other research has also been conducted on the effects of different components of RAG systems.