documents require extra processing. 5 Conclusion In this paper, we introduced CalibRAG, a simple yet effective framework designed to ensure that the RAG-guided decision-making process is well-calibrated. Our experiments demonstrated that CalibRAG significantly enhances QA performance within the RAG setting across various datasets and retriever models. Moreover, ablation studies showed that CalibRAG effectively aligns model 9 confidence with factual correctness, resulting in improved decision-making accuracy and calibra- tion. Overall, CalibRAG stood out as a robust solution for enhancing the reliability of RAG-based LLM guidance in decision-driven scenarios. However, creating synthetic datasets and training the forecasting function for decision calibration may introduce some overhead. Nonetheless, accurately calibrating language model confidence is crucial, making this approach both valid and worthwhile. Acknowledgement This work was supported by Institute of Information & communications Technology Planning & Evaluation(IITP) grant funded by the Korea government(MSIT) (No.RS-2019-II190075, Artificial Intelligence Graduate School Program(KAIST)). This work was supported by Institute of Infor- mation & communications Technology Planning & Evaluation(IITP) grant funded by the Korea government(MSIT) (No.RS-2024-00509279, Global AI Frontier Lab). This work was supported by the National Research Foundation of Korea(NRF) grant funded by the Korea government(MSIT) (NRF-2022R1A5A708390812). This work was supported by Institute of Information & commu- nications Technology Planning & Evaluation(IITP) grant funded by the Korea government(MSIT) (No.2022-0-00184, Development and Study of AI Technologies to Inexpensively Conform to Evolv- ing Policy on Ethics). This work was supported by the Institute of Information & Communications Technology Planning & Evaluation(IITP) grant funded by the Korea government(MSIT) (No.RS- 2025-02219317, AI Star Fellowship(Kookmin University)). This work was supported by Artifi- cial intelligence industrial convergence cluster development project funded by the Ministry of Sci- ence and ICT(MSIT, Korea) & Gwangju Metropolitan City. This research was supported by the MSIT(Ministry of Science, ICT), Korea, under the Global Research Support Program in the Digital