runs as well as estimate the total compute. • The paper should disclose whether the full research project required more compute than the experiments reported in the paper (e.g., preliminary or failed experiments that didn’t make it into the paper). 9.Code of ethics Question: Does the research conducted in the paper conform, in every respect, with the NeurIPS Code of Ethicshttps://neurips.cc/public/EthicsGuidelines? Answer: [Yes] Justification: The research conform with the NeurIPS Code of Ethics, with no identified violations or ethical concerns. Guidelines: • The answer NA means that the authors have not reviewed the NeurIPS Code of Ethics. • If the authors answer No, they should explain the special circumstances that require a deviation from the Code of Ethics. • The authors should make sure to preserve anonymity (e.g., if there is a special consid- eration due to laws or regulations in their jurisdiction). 10.Broader impacts Question: Does the paper discuss both potential positive societal impacts and negative societal impacts of the work performed? Answer: [Yes] 18 Justification: The paper discusses potential harms of over-reliance on LLMs and motivates CalibRAG as a method to mitigate such risks, especially in high-stakes decision-making tasks such as medical diagnosis and legal reasoning. Guidelines: • The answer NA means that there is no societal impact of the work performed. • If the authors answer NA or No, they should explain why their work has no societal impact or why the paper does not address societal impact. • Examples of negative societal impacts include potential malicious or unintended uses (e.g., disinformation, generating fake profiles, surveillance), fairness considerations (e.g., deployment of technologies that could make decisions that unfairly impact spe- cific groups), privacy considerations, and security considerations. • The conference expects that many papers will be foundational research and not tied to particular applications, let alone deployments.