d)with a temperature-agnostic variantf(q, d) trained without conditioning on user decoding behavior. As shown in Fig. 5a, temperature-aware forecasting significantly improves ECE across user model temperatures. In particular,f(q, d)tends to overestimate confidence under higher-temperature sampling, leading to increased ECE. In con- trast, our proposedf(t, q, d)correctly adapts to user-specific (decoding) behaviors and maintains relatively low ECE across the full temperature range. This confirms that incorporating user variabil- ity via temperature conditioning enables more reliable decision calibration. How does the number of retrieved passages (K) impact reranking?We useK= 20docu- ments for reranking in all experiments, balancing the computational cost and the performance of the decision-making task. To validate our choice, we plot accuracy as a function of the number of doc- uments for reranking in Fig. 5b. The results show that performance improves up to 20 documents, but the gains diminish beyond 40 documents, supporting our choice of 20 documents. Effect of Query ReformulationDuring inference, if none of theKretrieved documents inStage 2are predicted to contribute to a correct decision, CalibRAG can optionally proceed toStage 3, where it reformulates the queryqand retrieves a new set ofKdocuments. To evaluate whether this optional step improves performance, we conducted experiments on the NQ and WebQA datasets using both BM25 and Contriever retrievers. As shown in Fig. 5c, incorporatingStage 3, denoted as CalibRAG†, consistently improves performance across all cases. However, this improvement comes at the cost of additional computation, as reformulating the query and retrieving new documents require extra processing. 5 Conclusion In this paper, we introduced CalibRAG, a simple yet effective framework designed to ensure that the RAG-guided decision-making process is well-calibrated. Our experiments demonstrated that CalibRAG significantly enhances QA performance within the RAG setting across various datasets and retriever models. Moreover, ablation studies showed that CalibRAG effectively aligns model 9 confidence with factual correctness,