in- formation that LLMs lack, resulting in more accurate and reliable responses. However, the database cannot encompass all information, and the knowledge from world is continuously being updated. In such cases, the retriever may retrieve irrelevant documents, which can distract the LLM and lead to the generation of incorrect answers to the question [18]. Moreover, as described in Sec. 2.2, due to the LLM’s overconfidence in the retrieved document, they still tend to assign high confidence to its responses even when they are incorrect. Research onuncertainty calibrationhas aimed to address the issue of overconfident outputs in deep neural networks [19, 20, 21]. In image classification, techniques like temperature scaling have proven effective in improving calibration by adjusting logits [22, 23, 24]. However, calibrating LLMs is more challenging due to their sequential token generation and exponentially growing out- put space [21]. Thus, traditional methods like temperature scaling are less effective for long-form generation. To address this, Band et al. [6] proposed a calibration method targeting probabilities associated with user decisions in LLM-generated guidance but noted limitations in calibrating prob- abilities in RAG contexts. To address this issue, we propose the Calibrated Retrieval-Augmented Generation (CalibRAG) framework. CalibRAG allows an LLM using RAG to not only select relevant information to support user decision-making but also provide confidence levels associated with that information by utilizing a forecasting function, ensuring well-calibrated decisions based on the retrieved documents. Here, the forecasting function is the surrogate model that predicts the probability of whether the user’s decision based on the guidance provided by RAG will be correct. We empirically validate that our CalibRAG significantly improves calibration performance as well as accuracy, compared to other relevant baselines across several datasets. Our contributions can be summarized as follows: • We propose the CalibRAG framework, which enables well-calibrated decision-making based on