from training instability [27]. 3) It cannot be directly applied to calibrate the probabilities associated with the user decisions based on the guidance by RAG. 2.2 Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) RAG [13] employs Dense Passage Retrieval [DPR; 28] to retrieve relevant documents for question answering. DPR encodes questions and documents independently, enabling precomputation and in- dexing of document embeddings. At inference time, only the question is embedded and matched against the indexed documents via similarity search. Retrieved documents are then provided as ad- ditional context to an LLM, often improving accuracy of answer. Despite its effectiveness, RAG remains vulnerable to retrieval errors. Since retrievers are typically trained in an unsupervised man- ner [29, 30], their similarity scores do not necessarily reflect the utility of documents for downstream decision-making. As shown in Fig. 1a, the top-ranked document retrieved by Contriever [29] often leads to incorrect predictions, whereas lower-ranked documents may yield better outcomes. Fur- thermore, incorporating irrelevant documents can mislead the LLM, resulting in overconfident but incorrect answers, as illustrated in Fig. 1c. As an alternative to improve retrieval quality, reranking methods [31, 32] have been proposed to reorder candidates based on relevance signals. However, these approaches are typically optimized for ranking metrics (e.g., MRR, NDCG) rather than the correctness of downstream decisions, and thus do not produce calibrated confidence estimates. We provide a detailed discussion of why reranking methods fail to support decision calibration in Sec. A. Existing RAG methods, including those incorporating reranking, lack mechanisms to assess the con- fidence of retrieved documents. Addressing this limitation requires not only identifying documents 3 𝒙: Should I take melatonin to help with jet lag after a long flight?𝒒: Write a paragraph about the effects ofmelatoninon jet lag. Since I have to decide quickly, I'll go with temperature 𝑡=1.0 ❶...melatoninis a natural