+ Reranking (b) Number of retrievals BM25 NQ BM25 WebQA Contriever NQ Contriever WebQA 40 42 44 46 48 50ACC (%) Calibrag Calibrag (c) Effect of query reformulation Figure 5:(a)Calibration with and without temperature conditioning on the NQ dataset using Contriever.(b) Effect of the number of retrieved documents on reranking performance on the WebQA dataset using BM25.(c) Impact of query reformulation during inference. First, we conduct a comparison with reranking baselines using the HotpotQA [51] dataset. To as- sess the calibration performance of existing reranking baselines, we use their reranking scores as confidence values. Surprisingly, Table 1a shows that CalibRAG not only improves calibration per- formance compared to the baselines but also enhances accuracy. This result suggests that, while our inference procedure is designed to identify documents that lead to correct decisions, it also ef- fectively retrieves documents that are highly relevant to the queryx. The confidence assignment method for reranking models and the comparison with the BEIR reranking benchmark can be found in Sec. D.2. Next, we compare CalibRAG against a robust RAG baseline using the NQ and WebQA datasets. To evaluate the calibration performance of SelfRAG, we use the “Utility” score tokens as the con- fidence score. Similar to the reranking baseline comparison, Table 1b demonstrates that CalibRAG consistently outperforms other baselines across all datasets and metrics. 4.2 Ablation Studies Does temperature conditioning improve calibration?To evaluate the impact of temperature- aware modeling, we compare our full modelf(t, q, d)with a temperature-agnostic variantf(q, d) trained without conditioning on user decoding behavior. As shown in Fig. 5a, temperature-aware forecasting significantly improves ECE across user model temperatures. In particular,f(q, d)tends to overestimate confidence under higher-temperature sampling, leading to increased ECE. In con- trast, our proposedf(t, q, d)correctly adapts to user-specific (decoding) behaviors and maintains relatively low ECE across the full temperature