herent flaws of the current retrieval system, previous ap- proaches cause issues of insufficient reasoning and over- reasoning, respectively. To address these issues, we intro- duce inferential evidence as a form of knowledge caching. By summarizing and updating past relevant information, this approach enables retroactive awareness when new knowl- edge is introduced, while simultaneously reducing inter- ference from irrelevant information. The case in Figure 5 provides an intuitive demonstration of the differences be- tween our RetroRAG and previous approaches, traditional Figure 5: Case study of RetroRAG and previous approaches. Figure 6: Comparison of different evidence cases of RetroRAG and previous approaches. RAG stops reasoning due to insufficient retrieval informa- tion; SearChain makes the correct decomposing process but answers wrongly due to the related irrelevant knowledge; MetaRAG is interfered with excessive retrieval documents and makes the wrong reasoning process. Being aware of the evidence, RetroRAG makes the correct reasoning process that leads to an accurate answer. More cases would be given in Section B.2 of the Appendix. Effectiveness of evidence To better explore the effectiveness of Inferential Evidence, we divided the data into two categories based on the pres- ence of evidence generated through Question-Relevance and Reference-Attribution evaluations during the iterative pro- cess. We then analyzed the differences in performance on the main baselines. As shown in Figure 6, we find in scenarios where Inferential Evidence is generated, iteratively increas- ing the amount of knowledge performs better compared to decomposing sub-questions. We believe this because the re- trieval knowledge is extensively relevant and mutually cor- roborative, enhancing the LLM’s performance. Furthermore, our work enhances the LLM’s understanding of knowledge by generating Inferential Evidence, thereby further improv- ing the reliability of its responses. Additionally, the absence of Inferential Evidence generation may be due to the sparse distribution of required knowledge within individual