(AE) mechanism since Answerer needs to generate answer output) and ELLERY; Besides, we also fo- cus on the designs of evidence utilization, including Source Evidence (SE), Inferential Evidence (IE), Updating of Evi- dence (UoE) and Evaluation of Evidence (EoE). The results are shown in Table 2. Ablation of structure As shown in Table 2, it is evident that removing either of the frameworks adversely affects the performance of both datasets. Specifically, the removal of AE makes the LLM consistently set to a state of knowl- edge deficiency, thereby posing the risk of over-reasoning Figure 4: Comparison with different maximum numbers of iterations, numbers of evidence, and similarity thresholds. that turns the correct reasoning path built, into the incorrect one. Meanwhile, the removal of ELLERY would result in a complete absence of external knowledge, thereby leading to a significant decline in performance. This emphasizes the notion that many hallucinations stem from an insufficiency in external knowledge. Ablation of evidence utilization To conduct a more de- tailed analysis of the mechanisms of ELLERY , we per- formed ablation studies based on the characteristics of the evidence and the methods of evidence processing. Experi- mental results show that due to the complementary design, both source evidence and inferential evidence are crucial. Inferential evidence provides a summary of past effective information, thereby helping enhance the performance of LLMs. However, since it contains much less information than source evidence, source evidence has a greater impact on the quality of responses. Besides, the updating and evalu- ating of evidence can alleviate the introduction of irrelevant information, ensuring the progression of the current answer- ing process while aligning with the initial question, thereby enhancing performance. Qualitative Analysis To better delve into the impact of the numbers of iterations and evidence, as well as similarity thresholds, we have