for Zero-shot CIR. Given a reference image and a modi- fication text, multimodal LLMs extract prescriptive and proscriptive constraints. These are used to softly reward or penalize candidate images using CLIP similarity. of a single correct target. In contrast, our proposed dataset construction pipeline explicitly acknowledges the existence of multiple semantically valid targets, and leverages LLMs not only to identify diverse ground-truth candidates but also to generate disambiguated single-target queries, thereby en- abling both multi-target and fine-grained single-target eval- uations within a unified framework. 3 Method We propose a two-fold approach to enhance ZS-CIR: (1) a soft filtering module based on dual textual constraints that operates without additional training, and (2) a multi-target dataset pipeline that enables more diverse and precise eval- uation of retrieval models. 3.1 Soft Filtering with Dual Textual Constraints CIR takes a reference image and a modification text describ- ing the desired transformation as input. Even without ex- plicit negations, the task naturally defines bothprescriptive (must-have) andproscriptive(must-avoid) constraints. For instance, if the modification is “make it black” and the ref- erence shows a white T-shirt (as in Figure 1), then the white color becomes an attribute to avoid in the target image. We exploit this duality by decomposing the intent and reweight- ing candidate image scores accordingly, in a plug-and-play manner, as illustrated in the overview shown in Figure 2. Dual Constraint Generation via LLM Prompting.To extract constraints from reference imageI ref and modifica- tion textT mod, we prompt an instruction-tuned LLM in two step. Full prompt template is provided in the Appendix. In Step 1: Attribute Classification, the LLM identifies key attribute-value pairs and categorizes them into three types: keepattributes, which should be retained from the reference image;addattributes, which are newly required according to the modification; andremoveattributes, which are present in the reference but should