specific incorrect or harm- ful responses. To address these vulnerabilities, researchers have proposed strategies focusing on input optimization and knowledge integration. Weller et al. [52] conducts query augmentation and introduces a novel confidence method based on answer redundancy. RobustRAG [53] employs an isolate-then-aggregate strategy to en- sure the robustness of LLM responses against retrieval corruption attacks. By generating self-synthesized rationales, InstructRAG [51] explicitly denoises the retrieved content, thereby enhancing the robustness of RAG systems. CRAG [54] and AstuteRAG [48] turn to refine and integrate knowledge derived from different sources to improve knowledge utilization and enhance the robustness of the generated answer. However, despite the progress achieved by these methods, as discussed in §1, they can only partially control the retrieved content that the LLM accesses in RAG systems and fail to address the core issue of LLMs’ excessive reliance on the retrieval inputs. Unlike these works, we focus on enhancing the inherent defensive capabilities of LLMs to mitigate the impact of retrieval de- fects. By reducing dependency on external retrieval, our approach fundamentally improves RAG system robustness, offering a more resilient and trustworthy framework for real-world applications. 3 Task Formulation In this section, we first formalize the workflow of the RAG system and then discuss three types of potential retrieval defects that may occur in the RAG process. 3.1 Workflow of RAG Following previous works [24, 54], a vanilla RAG system typically consists of a retrieval component R, a generation component (i.e., the LLM) G, and a corresponding corpus C = {𝑑 } containing a large collection of knowledge documents. Whenever the system receives a user query 𝑞, the retrieval component R first retrieves RbFT: Robust Fine-tuning for Retrieval-Augmented Generation against Retrieval Defects Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY Figure 1: Overview of our RbFT. Specifically, RbFT consists