methods under different levels of retrieval defects. We observe that: (1) In the Clean setting, RbFT is the only method that sur- passes Vanilla RAG. Unlike other approaches that experience performance degradation in defect-free environments, RbFT can 2https://github.com/hiyouga/LLaMA-Factory 3https://github.com/StibiumT16/Robust-Fine-tuning Figure 3: The effectiveness-robustness trade-off scatter dia- gram. The x-axis represents effectiveness measured by the EM scores of each model in the Clean setting, and the y-axis represents robustness measured by the EM scores of each model in the Hard + Mix setting. enhance robustness while maintaining or even improving perfor- mance in such scenarios. For example, when using Qwen as the base model, RbFT achieves a 12.0% improvement in F1 score compared to Vanilla RAG. This advantage may be attributed to the fact that the top-ranked results returned by the retriever are rarely flawless and may contain a certain proportion of defective documents (i.e., false positives). RbFT actively identifies and adapts to these potentially defective documents, thereby preventing performance degradation. (2) In the Normal setting, RbFT consistently achieves the best performance across all retrieval defect scenarios and is still the only method that significantly outperforms Vanilla RAG. Notably, RbFT shows the most substantial improvement in the counterfactual defect scenario: when using the Llama model, the EM metric improves by 37.3% compared to the second-best method, while using the Qwen model also results in a 32.9% improvement, far exceeding other approaches. In other defect scenarios, RbFT also demonstrates strong superiority, with improvements in both metrics mainly ranging between 15% and 20%. (3) In the Hard setting, RbFT continues to outperform all other methods and further widens the gap with the second- best approach, highlighting its exceptional performance and adapt- ability in extremely adverse retrieval environments. Traditional methods often exhibit instability when handling these complex issues in such high-difficulty scenarios, where the