arXiv:2404.08628v1 [cs.IR] 12 Apr 2024 Accessibility in Information Retrieval Leif Azzopardi 1 and Vishwa Vinay 2 1 Dept. of Computing Science, University of Glasgow, Glasgow UK, leif@dcs.gla.ac.uk, 2 Microsoft Research Cambridge Cambridge, UK vvinay@microsoft.com Abstract. This paper introduces the concept of accessibility from the ﬁeld of transportation planning and adopts it within the con text of In- formation Retrieval (IR). An analogy is drawn between the ﬁe lds, which motivates the development of document accessibility measu res for IR systems. Considering the accessibility of documents withi n a collection given an IR System provides a diﬀerent perspective on the ana lysis and evaluation of such systems which could be used to inform the d esign, tuning and management of current and future IR systems. Keywords: Fairness, Bias, Equality, Accessibility, Retrievability 1 Introduction Information Retrieval is the area that deals with the storage, org anization, man- agement and retrieval of information, where the goal of continua l research in the ﬁeld is to ﬁnd better methods of doing the same. In pursuit of this better- ment evaluation has been instrumental in the development of IR Sys tems. While evaluation has typically focused on the eﬀectiveness [14], or the eﬃc iency [16] of the IR system, these are only two ways in which to assess the quality of an IR system. In this paper, we introduce a complementary view to evalua tion which provides a higher level view of the IR system by focusing on the accessibility an IR system provides to the documents in a collection. Accessibility is an abstract concept coined almost 50 years ago in the land use and transportation planning ﬁeld [10], where it was deﬁned as a me asure of potential opportunities for interaction with resources like employm ent, school- ing, shopping, dining, etc. Measuring the accessibility in this context enabled many studies (e.g. [10][12][15][7]) to be performed which examined, for e xam- ple, how changes in the levels of accessibility to such opportunities aﬀ ected the urban area (in terms of economic impact, social changes and so for th). The re- sults of such studies provide valuable information to transportatio n planners and city designers in the development of land use and transportation sy stems. Be- fore this, planners and designers would focus on measures which we re based on the eﬀectiveness and eﬃciency of the transportation system (su ch as, the travel time between particular locations). However, accessibility provided a diﬀerent perspective, and while related to eﬀectiveness and eﬃciency, it tak es a more abstracted or high level view on the evaluation of transportation s ystems, con- sidering more general concerns relating to access, instead of foc using on speciﬁc instances. Their deﬁnition of accessibility 3 considers the accessibility of opportunities at locations in a physical space (such as a city). The transportatio n system is the means by which opportunities are made accessible (i.e., the road netw ork and the bus, cycle path and a bicycle, etc). In this context, the main co nsideration in the design and management of the transportation system is to loo k beyond eﬃciency and eﬀectiveness and to consider the accessibility of oppo rtunities given a certain distance or the generalized cost the user is willing to incur to reach these opportunities and the desirability of these opportunities. In the context of Information Retrieval, an analogy of accessibility can be made as follows. Instead of an actual physical space, in IR, we are predomi- nately concerned with accessing information within a collection of doc uments (i.e., information space), and instead of a transportation system, we have an In- formation Access System (i.e., a means by which we can access the inf ormation in the collection, like a query mechanism, a browsing mechanism, etc). The ac- cessibility of a document is indicative of the likelihood or opportunity of it being retrieved by the user in this information space given such a mechanis m. For ex- ample, in a hyper-linked collection exposed by a browsing-based syst em, a page with no incoming or outgoing links will have no accessibility. Conversely, a page with thousands of incoming links would be very accessible. Here, we co nsider the accessibility of documents given an IR system, where documents ar e accessed by querying the system. Each query provides a diﬀerent ordering in wh ich to access the documents in the information space. Much like a particular bus ta king a pre-deﬁned route through a city. However, unlike in the physical s pace, in the information space, there is no constraint imposed by the user’s cur rent location (i.e., at a particular document) because the IR system facilitates ac cess to the collection regardless of location. The IR system is like being at a bus st op where every possible bus route is available, (i.e., the universe of all possible q ueries), and we can select any route desired, at any time. While this makes eve ry docu- ment potentially accessible, the choice of route and distance the us er is willing to travel will aﬀect just how accessible documents are in the inform ation space. 3 Accessibility is also a key concept in other areas but deﬁned diﬀerently. For in- stance, the disability rights movement advocates equal acc ess to social, political, and economic life which includes not only physical access bu t access to the same tools, services, organizations and facilities. Another ex ample is the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)’s Web Accessibility Initiative (W AI), wh ich is aimed to improve the accessibility of the World Wide Web for people using a wid e range of user agent devices, not just standard web browsers. However, accessib ility in these contexts concentrates on the physical aspects of accessing the infor mation, and even extends to issues regarding usability and mobility. In this paper, our main contribution is the introduction of the conce pt of accessibility and the proposal of how to measure accessibility in this c ontext. To do so, we ﬁrst describe the related research in Section 2 and dra w upon the extensive body of work in transportation planning and land use t o provide the basis in developing measures of accessibility for IR system. Then in Section 3, we propose two IR based accessibility measures that are analogo us to those in the ﬁeld of transportation. The introduction of accessibility pres ents many diﬀerent possibilities and challenges which can not be fully addressed h ere, so we summarize this initial contribution in Section 4. 2 Related Work In Hansen’s seminal paper [10] on measuring accessibility in transpor tation plan- ning and land use, he deﬁnes how accessibility could be measured: a measurement of the spatial distribution of activities abo ut a point ad- justed for the ability and the desire of people or ﬁrms to over come spatial separation. More speciﬁcally, the formulation states that the accessibility at point 1 to a particular type of activity at area 2 (say employm ent) is directly proportional to the size of the activity at area 2 (number of j obs) and inversely proportional to some function of the distance separating po int 1 from area 2. The total accessibility to employment at point 1 is the summa tion of the ac- cessibility to each of the individual areas around point 1. T herefore, as more and more jobs are located nearer to point 1, the accessibilit y to employment at point 1 will increase. Key to this deﬁnition is the notion that as opportunities become furt her away the less accessible they become, and that by considering all po ssibilities to opportunities subject to the cost function based on the distance apart, provides a measure of accessibility. Essentially, this measure quantiﬁes the potential of opportunities for interaction [10]. In the context of IR, the opportunities are the documents in the information space, and we wish to capture the potential of documents for retrieval . 2.1 Measures of Accessibility in T ransportation Planning There are numerous measures of accessibility that have been prop osed in the ﬁeld of Transportation Planning; the simplest and most popular meas ures are the Cumulative Opportunity Measures and Gravity Based Measures . Cumulative Opportunity Measures also known as Isochrone measures count the number of opportunities that can be reached within a given trav el time, distance, or generalized cost [15]. An example application of the mea sure is “the total number of dining opportunities within 400 metres”. The advan tage of this measure is that it is intuitive and easy to compute. However, the mea sure is sensitive to the size of the range (around the point of interest) to be considered, and the representation of the opportunities. First derived by [10], Gravity Based Measures provide a general method for measuring accessibility, which is widely used. They diﬀer from cumulativ e based measures in that they include a cost function within the calculation. G enerally, the cost function takes the form of a negative exponential funct ion (as described by [10], above), such that opportunities that are further away will have a lower impact on the ﬁnal accessibility value. By “further”, it is meant in ter ms of time, distance or generalized cost. While more sophisticated measures have been developed, such as Utility Based Measures [12] and Activity Based Measures [7], we shall only be consider- ing the former two methods in this work as they are the most widely us ed and accepted measures in transportation and planning. Thus, it seems reasonable to use these as a starting point to determine if they can be useful and informative in IR, before developing more sophisticated measures. 2.2 Accessibility in Information Retrieval Accessibility issues in IR have focused on restrictions (physical and virtual) to in- dex or retrieve information, whether this is because of a physical im pairment [8], restricted access due to security clearance [11], or the inability to c rawl portions of the web [4]. In each case, documents are inaccessible to the use r or the sys- tem because of some physical or virtual limitation. For instance, in t he latter case, the inability to crawl a web site means that certain documents are not indexed by the IR system, and therefore are not accessible to the user via the IR system. Recently, it was posited that the “searchability” of a we b site would be aﬀected by how easily pages can be crawled and how well the searc h engine matches and ranks them [13]. Searchability and accessibility are ther efore very similar concepts. However, we are concerned with the inﬂuence of t he IR sys- tem on accessing documents. Others (e.g. [9][5]) have considered ho w documents are accessed from the index in the retrieval process to facilitate m ore eﬃcient retrieval by considering processor, disk and memory constraints . For instance “access-ordered indices” [9] are where the documents which are m ore likely to be returned at higher ranks are placed before those that are not likely to be returned at higher ranks. Another example, is the caching of quer ies [3], in web search engines, where results pages are cached in response to po pular queries in order to facilitate eﬃcient access. In essence, IR is all about accessing information , and how the information is accessed . Our work is focused on measuring the accessibility of documents in the collection given the IR system used to access these document s. This is diﬀerent from past work, in that we are speciﬁcally examining the inﬂu ence of the IR system to restrict or promote access to the information within the collection as opposed to other restrictions. This paper hopes to es tablish the idea of accessibility as an integral concept in the ﬁeld by highlighting its pot ential in the practical task of developing, building, and optimizing IR Systems , as well as diagnostics and evaluation. 3 Measuring Document Accessibility Given a collection D, an IR system accepts a user query q and returns a ranking of documents Rq, which are deemed to be relevant to q from within D by the IR system. We can consider the accessibility of a document as a system dependent factor that measures how retrievable it is, with respect to the colle ction D and the ranking function used by the IR system. Using the analogy of tr ansporta- tion, entering a query is like to choosing a particular bus, where the o rder of documents returned are like the order of destinations reached fo r that given bus route. Opportunities to interact with resources while traveling alon g the route are reﬂected by going through the documents returned in the ran king Rq. The accessibility of the resources (i.e., documents) is dependant on the willingness of the user to travel a certain distance along the route (i.e., trave rse down the ranked list) and all the queries that users are likely to travel along. So, by adapt- ing the measures from transportation planning, we propose a gene ral measure of the accessibility of a document, as: A(d) = ∑ q∈Q oq · f (cdq, θ) (1) where oq denotes the likelihood of expressing query q from the universe of queries Q and f (cdq, θ) is a generalized utility/cost function where cdq is the distance associated with accessing d through q which is deﬁned by the rank of the doc- ument, and θ is a parameter or set of parameters given the speciﬁc type of measure. A cumulative based measure can then be deﬁned as follows: θ = c, where c denotes the maximum rank that a user is willing to proceed down the ra nked list. The function f (cdq, c) returns a value of 1 if cdq ≤ c (with the top-most position considered as rank 1), and 0 otherwise. So, if returning a d ocument in response to a given query has a distance greater than c associated with it, then it is considered unaccessible (for this query). For another qu ery however, the document may be accessible because the cost of accessing it is within the distance c. Alternatively, the document could be considered accessible for th e same query but to a user who has a higher cost threshold. Since all the documen ts within the cutoﬀ deﬁned by c are equally weighted, this type of measure emphasizes the number of times the document can be retrieved within that cuto ﬀ over the set Q. A gravity based measure can also be deﬁned by setting the function to reﬂect the eﬀort of going further down the ranked list, such that the fur ther down the ranking the less accessible a document becomes. There are numero us ways in which such a function could be determined. Here, we adopt the func tion sug- gested in [10], where the accessibility of the document is inversely pro portional to the rank of the document, such that: f (cdq, β) = 1 (cdq)β (2) where, the set of parameters θ includes β which is a dampening factor that adjusts how accessible the document is in the ranking. Interesting ly, if the β parameter is set to one, then accessibility of the document for the given query is equivalent to the reciprocal rank of the document, which is relate d to the (expected) search length [6]. When there is only one relevant docum ent, the expected search length is equivalent to the reciprocal rank of the document. Intuitively, the expected search length (ESL) and accessibility of d ocuments is related, because the expected search length corresponds to ho w many irrelevant documents have to be examined in order to ﬁnd the relevant docume nts. The expected search length to a particular document is proportional t o the accessi- bility of the document for a given query. However, what the access ibility measure captures is more general, i.e., how retrievable the document is given a ll possi- ble/likely queries regardless of relevancy, but this link to ESL and rec iprocal rank appears to provide a connection between accessibility and eﬀe ctiveness. As we have previously mentioned this direction is left for future work. Given either measure, A(d) provides an indication of the opportunity of retrieving d. This value can be obtained for each document d ∈ D so that we can compare whether there is more opportunity to retrieve one do cument over another. Using this measure to compare groups of documents has potential to aid in the design, management and tuning of retrieval systems in a nu mber of ways. Imagine that for a given collection of documents and a given IR system, the average A(d) of a set of documents is extremely high, while for another set of documents the average A(d) is very low. Perhaps, the ﬁrst set of documents was a group of site entry pages, and our system has a prior towards su ch pages, thus we would expect these pages to have a higher A(d). In this case, it is desirable that these documents are so accessible. On the other hand, if the set of highly accessible pages was composed of spam pages, because these pag es have used “tricks” to artiﬁcially inﬂate the number of queries for which they ar e retrieved, then this is not desirable and the system needs to be adjusted. Alte rnatively, if there is a set of documents which are virtually inaccessible in the colle ction, then it is a management decision to decide whether these documents should be included in the index or not. At a higher level, the measure A(d) motivates questions regarding how ac- cessible documents in the collection should be, and whether we are int erested in trying to “hide” or “promote” certain documents within the collect ion. Or whether we should adopt an approach that ensures access to the information is free from bias, i.e. “universal access” 4 so that any document is as accessible as any other document in the collection. This provides a novel framework for mea- suring document accessibility, which enables the consideration of su ch questions and issues. 4 As previously mentioned, the disability rights movement ad vocates equal access and terms this notion as universal access. 4 Conclusion and Future Work The main contribution of this paper is the introduction of the concep t of ac- cessibility and quantifying the accessibility of documents in the collect ion given a particular IR system. Measures of accessibility are not performa nce measures like eﬀectiveness or eﬃciency, but instead are measures of the potential of doc- uments for retrieval (a.k.a., their retrievability [2]). This abstraction provides a novel way to quantify and detect diﬀerent levels of accessibility with in the col- lection imposed by the IR system. For a system administrator, this c ould prove to be very useful in designing, managing and tuning the IR system (s ee [1] for empirical examples). This work represents the initial step towards formalizing accessibilit y and de- veloping accessibility measures for information spaces, in IR and mor e generally for any Information Access system. However, there are many op en problems, challenges and issues which have arisen as a result of this work. Furt her research needs to be conducted in two main directions: 1. the calibration, computation and estimation of document access ibility mea- sures, and 2. the application of document accessibility measures. Acknowledgements The authors would like to thank Stephen Robertson, Keith van Rijsbergen and Murat Yakici for their helpful and insightful co mments and suggestions. References 1. L. Azzopardi and V. Vinay. Document accessibility: Evalu ating the access aﬀorded to a document by the retrieval system. In Workshop on Novel Methodologies for Evaluation in Information Retrieval , pages 52–60, March 2008. 2. L. Azzopardi and V. Vinay. Retrievability: an evaluation measure for higher order information access tasks. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM Conference on Informa- tion and Knowledge Management , CIKM ’08, page 561–570, 2008. 3. R. Baeza-Yates, A. Gionis, F. Junqueira, V. Murdock, V. Pl achouras, and F. Sil- vestri. The impact of caching on search engines. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM SIGIR conference, pages 183–190, 2007. 4. P. Bailey, N. Craswell, and D. Hawking. Chart of darkness: Mapping a large intranet. Technical report, CSIRO Mathematical and Inform ation Sciences, 2000. 5. S. Buttcher and C. L. A. Clarke. A document-centric approa ch to static index pruning in text retrieval systems. In Proceedings of the 15th ACM Conference on Information and Knowledge Management , 2006. 6. W. S. Cooper. Expected search length: A single measure of r etrieval eﬀectiveness based on weak ordering action of retrieval systems. Journal of the American Society for Information Science , 19(1):30–41, 1968. 7. X. Dong, M. E. Ben-Akiva, J. L. Bowman, and J. L. Walker. Mov ing from trip- based to activity-based measures of accessibility. Transportation research. Part A, Policy and practice , 40(2):163–180, 2006. 8. I. Fajardo, J. J. Canas, L. Salmeron, and J. Abascal. Impro ving deaf users’ acces- sibility in hypertext information retrieval: are graphica l interfaces useful for them? Behaviour and Information Technology , 25(6):455–467(13), 2006. 9. S. Garcia, H. E. Williams, and A. Cannane. Access-ordered indexes. In Twenty- Seveth Australasian Computer Science Conference (ACSC200 4), pages 7–14, 2004. 10. W. Hansen. How accessibility shape land use. Journal of the American Institute of Planners , 25(2):73–76, 1959. 11. D. Hawking. Challenges in enterprise search. In ADC ’04: Proceedings of the 15th Australasian database conference, pages 15–24, Darlinghurst, Australia, Australia, 2004. Australian Computer Society, Inc. 12. H. Neuburger. User beneﬁt in the evaluation of transport and land use plans. Journal of Transport Economics and Policy , 5:52–75, 1971. 13. T. Upstill, N. Craswell, and D. Hawking. Buying bestsell ers online: A case study in search & searchability. In 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium , Sydney, Australia, 2002. 14. C. J. van Rijsbergen. Information Retrieval. Butterworths, London, second edition edition, 1979. 15. M. Wachs and T. G. Kumagai. Physiscal accessibility as a s ocial indicator. So- cioeconomic Planning Science , 7:327–456, 1973. 16. I. H. Witten, A. Moﬀat, and B. T. C. Managing Gigabytes: Compressing and Indexing Documents and Images . Morgan Kaufmann Publishing, San Franciso, second edition edition, 1999.