CG ITR models, however, we acknowledge cer- tain limitations. CG models are commonly bench- marked on datasets which contain hashtag collec- tions as text samples (e.g. MIR-Flickr25K [ 59] or NUS-WIDE [ 60]). In contrast, FG models require full sentences to enable instance-level retrieval. There are currently no benchmark ITR datasets that contain both full sentences and hashtag col- lections as their text samples. This limitation presents an opportunity for an extension of our work, where an image captioning model could be used to generate full sentences for MIR-Flickr25K or NUS-WIDE to enable further evaluations. Our scalability experiments quantiﬁed the computational costs associated with increasingly large retrieval sets. To achieve this, we used data duplication to grow our datasets. However, the potential degradation of retrieval performance as the size of the retrieval set increases could not be measured through this approach. Large-scale ITR benchmarks which would enable this investigation do not exist in the ﬁeld. Currently available large- scale image-text datasets (e.g. LAION-5B [ 61], CC13 [ 62]) are built for vision-language pretrain- ing and have data imbalance and noise, which makes them unsuitable for benchmarking pur- poses. Our future work will target creating large- scale ITR benchmark datasets which maintain data quality and balance. Our study could be extended in sev- eral directions: Our experiments focused on a cross-methodology comparison of FG and CG approaches. However, further within-methodology experiments could inform future work, such as implementing FG model ensembles or identifying the most suitable CG architecture for real-world use cases. Additional experiments could examine the generalisability of our ﬁndings across diﬀer- ent data distributions, application domains, and model sensitivity to diﬀerent types of data. Fur- ther eﬃciency gains could be achieved through hardware optimisations and custom batching solu- tions. 7 Conclusion While the conceptual diﬀerences in performance between FG