a CG model selects top-k candidates to reduce the computa- tional load of a subsequent ﬁne-grained rerank- ing step. Our evaluation results showed that CG models trained speciﬁcally with instance-level loss functions could potentially serve as this ini- tial screening step within a coarse-to-ﬁne ITR pipeline. However, traditional CG models trained on category-level loss functions are not suitable for this purpose. Despite their eﬀectiveness in broadly retrieving samples of the same category as the query, these models do not consistently rank the exact instance-level match high enough in the retrieval rank to serve as an eﬀective initial screening step. Attention mechanisms. State-of-the-art benchmark recall results are achieved by mod- els such as BLIP-2, which employ fusion-encoder reranking to reﬁne search results. However, the computational load associated with such query- time attention mechanisms is diﬃcult to justify for practical use in retrieval applications. This inef- ﬁciency stems from fusion encoders attending to every possible image-text pair with a computa- tional complexity of O(n × m), where n is the number of queries and m is the number of retrieval candidates. Unlike retrieval tasks where fusion encoders must process all query-candidate pairs, in applications like VQA or image captioning, the fusion encoder only needs to attend to a single image-text pair at a time (e.g. the given question and image), resulting in O(n) complexity. This makes fusion encoders particularly well-suited for these single-pair reasoning tasks[ 57, 58], but prohibitively expensive for large-scale retrieval. Therefore, for retrieval applications where stor- age concerns can be addressed, dual-encoder VLP models which do not have query-time attention represent the most practical architecture type for instance-level retrieval. Search scalability insights. Scalability experiments revealed that the potential eﬃciency advantages of CG models, particularly in terms of bitwise operations, do not always translate into practical performance gains for query