FiCo-ITR: bridging ﬁne-grained and coarse-grained image-text retrieval for comparative performance analysi s Mikel Williams-Lekuona and Georgina Cosma Computer Science Department, Loughborough University, Ep inal Way, Loughborough, LE11 3TU, Leicestershire, United Kingdom. *Corresponding author(s). E-mail(s): m.williams@lboro.ac.uk; Contributing authors: g.cosma@lboro.ac.uk; Abstract In the ﬁeld of Image-Text Retrieval (ITR), recent advanceme nts have leveraged large-scale Vision- Language Pretraining (VLP) for Fine-Grained (FG) instance -level retrieval, achieving high accuracy at the cost of increased computational complexity. For Coar se-Grained (CG) category-level retrieval, prominent approaches employ Cross-Modal Hashing (CMH) to p rioritise eﬃciency, albeit at the cost of retrieval performance. Due to diﬀerences in methodologi es, FG and CG models are rarely com- pared directly within evaluations in the literature, resul ting in a lack of empirical data quantifying the retrieval performance-eﬃciency tradeoﬀs between the two. This paper addresses this gap by introduc- ing the FiCo-ITR library, which standardises evaluation methodologies for both FG and CG models, facilitating direct comparisons. We conduct empirical eva luations of representative models from both subﬁelds, analysing precision, recall, and computational complexity across varying data scales. Our ﬁndings oﬀer new insights into the performance-eﬃciency tr ade-oﬀs between recent representative FG and CG models, highlighting their respective strengths and limitations. These ﬁndings provide the foundation necessary to make more informed decisions regar ding model selection for speciﬁc retrieval tasks and highlight avenues for future research into hybrid systems that leverage the strengths of both FG and CG approaches. Keywords: Cross-Modal Retrieval, Fine-Grained, Coarse-Grained, Vi sion-Language Pretraining, Cross-modal hashing 1 Introduction Cross-Modal Retrieval (CMR) involves using one type of data, such as text, to search for another type of data, such as images. Unlike general multi-modal tasks, CMR speciﬁcally focuses on bridging the gap between diﬀerent modalities to enable retrievals across modalities. CMR has gained prominence over the past decade due to