For example, in the 1M/5M test, the search time for the FG HNSW (39.80s) is similar to the CG IVF (40.25s). Despite the potential for computational eﬃciency oﬀered by CG methods through lightweight bitwise oper- ations, Figure 4 illustrates a practical overlap in search time between FG and CG indexes across increasing data sizes. This convergence in search time can be attributed to recent hardware opti- misations favouring continuous embeddings. This result suggests that binarised embeddings have room for further optimisation research eﬀorts, 14 particularly in standardising methodologies that optimise hardware utilisation to handle bitwise embeddings more eﬃciently. 6 Key ﬁndings and discussion Based on the results obtained from the conducted comparative experiments, the following are the main key ﬁndings and recommendations derived from this study: Performance comparison. FG models con- sistently outperformed CG models in instance- level retrieval tasks. CG models, however, demon- strated competitive performance in category-level retrieval, especially when retrieving large num- bers of relevant samples. These ﬁndings challenge the conventional notion of FG models having uni- versal superiority in retrieval performance over CG models; while FG models excel in speciﬁc instance-level retrieval, their performance advan- tage diminishes in broader, category-level tasks. This suggests that, when retrieval performance is the main concern, the choice between FG and CG models should be task-dependent rather than always defaulting to FG models. Hybrid coarse-to-ﬁne potential. An intu- itive integration of CG and FG models could involve a two-step approach, where a CG model selects top-k candidates to reduce the computa- tional load of a subsequent ﬁne-grained rerank- ing step. Our evaluation results showed that CG models trained speciﬁcally with instance-level loss functions could potentially serve as this ini- tial screening step within a coarse-to-ﬁne ITR pipeline. However, traditional CG models trained on category-level loss functions are not suitable for this