threshold-based weighting scheme to increase the discrimination of hash codes. DGCPN [ 40] uses a graph-based framework with nodes representing related data and employs a conditional proba- bility model to evaluate the coherence between neighbouring nodes. ADV [ 48] adopts ﬁne-grained learning objectives for a two-step instance-level retrieval task where shorter hash code embeddings perform initial screening for subsequent reranking using longer hash codes. UCCH [ 10] uses con- trastive learning with a momentum optimiser and introduces a cross-modal ranking learning loss to address binary-continuous relaxation challenges and mitigate the impact of false-negative pairs. 3 Proposed library and toolkit We propose FiCo-ITR, a comprehensive library and toolkit that uniﬁes the evaluation of the FG and CG ITR subﬁelds, facilitating direct compar- isons for both image-to-text (i → t) and text- to-image (t → i) retrieval tasks. As illustrated in Figure 2, the library’s framework comprises ﬁve key components: 1) Data Pre-Processing, 2) Model Encoding, 3) Similarity Metrics, 4) Retrieval Tasks, and 5) Evaluation Metrics, form- ing a complete pipeline for image-text retrieval evaluation. 1) Data pre-processing. To enable both instance-level and category-level retrieval eval- uations, the selected benchmark datasets must have full-sentence captions as well as semantic category labelling. For datasets which do not have semantic category labelling, we employ the Query2Label (Q2L) [ 49] classiﬁer to label them with synthetic semantic category labels. We adopt pre-processing steps which most closely adhere to each subﬁeld’s standard approaches [ 10, 18]: For CG models, FiCo-ITR provides the toolkit to extract 4096D VGG-19 features for images and 300D Doc2Vec features for text. Images are preprocessed by resizing to VGG-19’s expected 224× 224 pixels and applying standard normal- isation (mean=[0.485, 0.456, 0.406], std=[0.229, 0.224, 0.225]). The VGG-19 network, pretrained on ImageNet, has its ﬁnal three layers removed to obtain the feature vectors. Text