conditioning on extracted facets to produce natural clarifica- tions or directly deriving facets from queries before turning them into questions. Yet the task remains split into two stages—facet identification and question gen- eration—creating bottlenecks in facet extraction and risks of hallucination when clarifications introduce content unsupported by the corpus [27,28]. Inthiswork,webuildontheretrieval-augmentedgeneration(RAG)paradigm [12] to ground clarifications directly in the corpus, focusing on answers supported by the documents. Facet extraction is performed implicitly by supplying the top- kretrieved passages to the LLM, which then generates the clarifying question. The first contribution of this article is to propose a fine-tuning of conditional clarification generation, which greatly improves the quality of the questions. To further mitigate entity-level hallucinations, we also introduce a faithfulness re- inforcement mechanism that steers the model to rely on the retrieved inputs rather than its internal knowledge, following the approach of [6]. Thus, we aim to address the following research questions: RQ1.How can relevant passages be selected from the corpus, and how many should be used to optimally guide clarification? RQ2.How does conditioning on these relevant passages affect the generation of clarifying questions? RQ3.How can the faithfulness of clarifying question generation be improved when conditioned on relevant passages? Retrieval-Augmented Clarification for Faithful CS 3 We introduce RAC, a framework for generating clarifying questions grounded in relevant retrieved passages, and train a large language model to prioritize faithful questions using preference tuning and contrastive learning, as illustrated in Fig. 1. We validate our approach on conversational search and open-domain Question Answering datasets through automatic metrics and LLM-as-Judge evaluations. Results show that RAC consistently enhances both the quality and faithfulness of clarifying questions, outperforming existing baselines. 2 Related Work Query Clarification in Conversational Search.Askingclarifyingquestions enables users to actively participate in query disambiguation, with the goal of better capturing their information intent [1,2,7,11].