RAG-Check: Evaluating Multimodal Retrieval Augmented Generation Performance Matin Mortaheb †, Mohammad A. (Amir) Khojastepour ∗, Srimat T. Chakradhar ∗, Sennur Ulukus † †University of Maryland, College Park, MD, ∗NEC Laboratories America, Princeton, NJ mortaheb@umd.edu, amir@nec-labs.com, chak@nec-labs.com, ulukus@umd.edu Abstract—Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) improves large language models (LLMs) by using external knowledge to guide response generation, reducing hallucinations. How- ever, RAG, particularly multi-modal RAG, can introduce new hallucination sources: (i) the retrieval process may select ir- relevant pieces (e.g., documents, images) as raw context from the database, and (ii) retrieved images are processed into text-based context via vision-language models (VLMs) or directly used by multi-modal language models (MLLMs) like GPT-4o, which may hallucinate. To address this, we propose a novel framework to evaluate the reliability of multi-modal RAG using two performance measures: (i) the relevancy score (RS), assessing the relevance of retrieved entries to the query, and (ii) the correctness score (CS), evaluating the accuracy of the generated response. We train RS and CS models using a ChatGPT-derived database and human evaluator samples. Results show that both models achieve 88% accuracy on test data. Additionally, we construct a 5000-sample human-annotated database evaluating the relevancy of retrieved pieces and the correctness of response statements. Our RS model aligns with human preferences 20% more often than CLIP in retrieval, and our CS model matches human preferences 91% of the time. Finally, we assess various RAG systems’ selection and generation performances using RS and CS. I. I NTRODUCTION Generative models have seen significant improvements with recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) [1]. Although the generated responses often reach human-like quality, hallucinations—generating incorrect or irrelevant re- sponses—remain an issue [2]. This problem is particularly concerning for applications where accuracy is critical, such as in medical evaluations, processing insurance claims, and autonomous decision-making. The hallucination issue also