the KILT benchmark, including dialogue and ques- tion answering. Likewise, an in-depth investigation on more effective strategies for domain adaptation, such as the combination of zero-shot and few-shot learning involving human-in-the-loop techniques, would be another interesting direction to explore. References Christoph Alt, Aleksandra Gabryszak, and Leonhard Hennig. 2020. TACRED revisited: A thorough eval- uation of the TACRED relation extraction task. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Asso- ciation for Computational Linguistics , pages 1558– 1569, Online. Association for Computational Lin- guistics. Gabor Angeli, Melvin Jose Johnson Premkumar, and Christopher D. Manning. 2015. Leveraging linguis- tic structure for open domain information extraction. In Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics and the 7th International Joint Conference on Natural Lan- guage Processing (V olume 1: Long Papers) , pages 344–354, Beijing, China. Association for Computa- tional Linguistics. Antoine Bordes, Nicolas Usunier, Alberto García- Durán, Jason Weston, and Oksana Yakhnenko. 2013. Translating embeddings for modeling multi- relational data. In NIPS, pages 2787–2795. Nicola De Cao, Gautier Izacard, Sebastian Riedel, and Fabio Petroni. 2021. Autoregressive entity retrieval. In International Conference on Learning Represen- tations. Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language under- standing. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, V olume 1 (Long and Short Papers) , pages 4171–4186, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Associ- ation for Computational Linguistics. Joe Ellis, Jeremy Getman, Dana Fore, Neil Kuster, Zhiyi Song, Ann Bies, and Stephanie M. Strassel. 2015. Overview of linguistic resources for the TAC KBP 2015 evaluations: Methodologies and results. In TAC. NIST. Hady Elsahar, Pavlos V ougiouklis, Arslen Remaci, Christophe Gravier, Jonathon Hare, Frederique Laforest, and Elena Simperl. 2018. T-REx: A large scale alignment