element. In contrast, Docling is tailored for parsing high-level document structures, making it particularly suit- able for forms and reports with well-defined layouts. These parsing methods facilitate the extraction of key elements from unstructured documents, converting them into structured data for further pro- cessing. After data parsing, HetaRAG performs format conversion and content embedding on the parsed data. For the different parsing results obtained from the two data parsing methods, HetaRAG has 4 Knowledge Graph Generation PDF Parser Semantic Segmentation Image To Text Semantic Similarity Vector Database Full - text database Relational Database Vectorization Semantic Vectorization Document preparation Vector - based Retrieval Web - based Retrieval Graph - based Retrieval Graph Database Node Relation Description Information Extraction Aggregation Node Cross - cluster Relation Hierarchical Clustering Unified attributes Data storage Path Generation Bottom - up - bottom Path Neighboring layer relation P C C C Database Information Retrieval Query Rewrite Summarize Rerank Figure 1: The Framework of the HetaRAG. Raw documents (PDF, image, web) are parsed into unified multimodal chunks. Each chunk is simultaneously indexed into four heterogeneous stores: Milvus (vector), Neo4j (graph), Elasticsearch (full-text), and MySQL (relational). At query time, the system rewrites the question, launches bottom-up graph traversal, semantic vector search, lexical full-text search, and SQL filtering in parallel, then reranks and summarizes the fused evidence to produce a grounded answer or a deep research report. designed specific format conversion and embedding techniques to organize the data into unified fields. This standardization facilitates unified and precise matching and retrieval in the subsequent stages of the project. Regarding embedding, HetaRAG supports two methods: text-only embedding using the BGE-m3 [39] model and multimodal embedding (text and image) using the QwenVL [40] encoder. Text embedding focuses on capturing the semantic representation of textual content, while multimodal embedding focuses on the unified encoding