modulation networks that adjust embeddings based on interpretable, domain-specific factors. The query path processes text through a base encoder followed by a modulation network to produce a modulated embedding, while the document path follows an identical structure. The modulation networks decompose the embedding space into interpretable dimensions that can be visualized, explained, and controlled. Think of it as adding ”semantic dials” that explicitly control which aspects of meaning are emphasized. Clinical Conversation Scenario:Consider the following nat- ural clinical conversation, where the task for Neurosymbolic RAG is to identify possible mental health and psychological risk factor assessments that can be populated from an ac- tive conversation between patient and clinician. The clinician begins by asking, ”Thanks for coming in today. How have you been feeling lately?” The patient responds: ”Honestly, not great. I’ve been really down, you know? Nothing seems fun anymore, not even things I used to love.” The patient continues: ”And I can’t sleep. I lie awake for hours every night, just... thinking. Remembering things.” When the clinician probes further about these memories, the patient discloses: ”Stuff from when I was a kid. My dad... he had a bad temper. There was a lot of yelling, sometimes worse. I don’t know why it’s all coming back now.” The patient concludes: ”I’m exhausted all the time, but my brain won’t shut off at night. Then I’m useless during the day.” The challenge of Multi-Turn Clinical Conversations: As the conversation unfolds, the purpose of a Neurosymbolic system is to continuously process each utterance, extract symbolic features that build a progressive, rich clinical picture for proper assessment. Traditional closed box retrieval systems struggle with natural conversations because they lack the structured knowledge to integrate information across multiple turns and understand causal relationships between disclosed facts. A standard neural system might retrieve depression