these directions into a single, knowledge-graph–infused, path-aware RAG framework that both enriches queries and optimizes document ranking using explicit provenance signals. One line of work that attempts to address the lack of query-aware graph optimization in GraphRAG is G-Retriever [8], which conditions retrieval on subgraphs extracted through prize- collecting Steiner tree (PCST) optimization. This approach can yield more precise query-specific subgraphs than heuristic GraphRAG traversals. However, G-Retriever requires jointly fine-tuning the model on both the GraphRAG-induced graph structure and the query distribution, introducing substantial additional complexity. Moreover, because the model learns im- plicit semantic associations during fine-tuning, explicit control over graph-level semantics, and thus, the interpretability of the selected subgraph remains limited. To address the limitations of standard RAG and the gaps identified in graph-augmented retrieval, we introduce two complementary improvements: (1) the integration of a knowl- edge graph (KG) to support query enrichment and semantic- preserving retrieval, and (2) explicit mechanisms for inter- pretability and traceability throughout the retrieval pipeline. Incorporating a KG adds three key capabilities that do not arise naturally in vanilla RAG: query enrichment, logical coherence, and semantic relatedness in retrieval. In our framework, the user query is first mapped onto the KG, and one-hop or two-hop traversals are used to surface conceptually related nodes. The original query, together with these KG-derived concepts, is then provided to a language model to generate an enriched query. This enriched query is used to contextualize downstream retrieval via standard vector-based RAG, thereby improving the quality and relevance of the retrieved evidence. The resulting generation quality can be systematically evalu- ated using a language model fine-tuned on natural-language inference to measure logical coherence, and another model fine-tuned on semantic similarity tasks to assess semantic relatedness. A remaining limitation of this approach is that KG traversal is primarily used for query