use case, and often, solutions do not generalize well to other domains (Barnett et al., 2024; Bala- guer et al., 2024). Some key RAG design decisions include text embedding, indexing parameters, re- trieval algorithms, query building, and prompt de- sign, among other considerations beyond the LLM configuration (Wang et al., 2024). Another issue is reproducibility: achieving consistent and compara- ble results across runs, datasets and tasks. Varia- tions in training data, pre-processing steps, model configurations, and hardware can lead to discrep- ancies in performance, making it challenging for researchers and practitioners to replicate findings and build upon previous work. Additionally, evalu- ating RAG systems presents a challenge due to the dual reliance on retrieval accuracy and generative quality. These systems require a sophisticated eval- uation suite that accounts for the interplay among the retrieved information, the formalization of data, and the generated output (Chen et al., 2023; Yu et al., 2024a; Es et al., 2024). We introduce RAG F OUNDRY , an open-source python framework for developing sophisticated retrieval-augmented LLMs for RAG use-cases. The library supports researchers and practitioners in the nuanced task of enhancing the capabilities of LLMs in RAG use cases. It is highly customizable, fa- cilitating rapid prototyping and experimentation across all aspects of RAG, including data selec- tion, aggregation and filtering, retrieval, text pro- cessing, document ranking, few-shot generation, prompt design using templates, fine-tuning, infer- ence, and evaluation. To cater to the specific needs of researchers, we designed the framework to func- tion as an end-to-end experimentation environment. The backbone of the library consists of four dis- tinct modules: data creation, training, inference, and evaluation. Each module is encapsulated and controlled by a configuration file, ensuring compat- ibility between the output of one module and the input of the next. This modular approach allows each step