retrieval and semantic retrieval can run in parallel, thereby shortening the total retrieval time. Nevertheless, parallel retrieval is not implemented in our current work, as it is not the focus of our work. (3) Both KAG construction and PPR filtering are efficient.This confirms that TeaRAG can efficiently leverage co-occurrence relationships to produce higher–information-density retrieval content. 5.7 Case Study In this section, we present a case study of TeaRAG-8B and Search-R1-base-7B+R to gain a clearer understanding of TeaRAG’s advantages. As shown in Table 11, we observe two advantages of TeaRAG-8B. First, the content retrieved by TeaRAG-8B effectively increases information density by introducing knowledge triplets, and it further strengthens confidence in the correct information , V ol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018. 28 Zhang et al. by leveraging the co-occurrence between chunks and triplets. In addition, TeaRAG-8B effectively reduces the number of iterations in the reasoning path, fully leveraging available information to arrive at the correct answer. In contrast, Search-R1-base-7B+R pulls in a large amount of document content, which distracts the model from effectively capturing key information to obtain the correct answer, and the model exhibits overthinking and redundant retrieval, leading to poor overall token efficiency. Table 11. Case comparison between TeaRAG-8B and Search-R1-base-7B+R. The answer is high- lighted in orange text. Question:Where was the place of death of Alexander Carl Otto Westphal’s father? Ground Truth:Kreuzlingen TeaRAG-8B: Step 1: Important entity:Alexander Carl Otto Westphal Subquery:Who was the father of Alexander Carl Otto Westphal? <Reference> Evidence 1: Title: "Alexander Carl Otto Westphal" Text: number of significant sci- entists, including Otto Lowenstein (1889-1965), with whom he was co-author of "Experimentelle und klinische Studien zur Physiologie und Pathologie der Pupillenbewegungen, mit besonderer Berücksichtigung der Schizophrenie" ... Evidence 2: Title: "Alexander Carl Otto Westphal" Text: Alexander Carl Otto Westphal Alexander Carl Otto