Retrieval Reasoning Path Construction Merge Merge Knowledge Association Graph Construction Personalized PageRankSummary Generation Final Answer Autonomous Agentic PipelineContinue Query Polish-Russian War Who is the director of the film Polish-Russian War? The fact Polish-Russian War (film) directed by Xawery Żuławski … Judge？ Fig. 3. The overall pipeline of TeaRAG. Based on an offline-built knowledge graph and chunk corpus index, TeaRAG progressively constructs a reasoning path until the final answer is determined. data, as larger graphs inevitably introduce more noise and complexity. To investigate the performance of TeaRAG under a large-scale knowledge graph, we construct a knowledge graph based on the widely used Wikipedia corpus [30]. Following [84], we employ the Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct model [74] to extract knowledge triplets from each document chunk. This ensures that the content of the graph is consistent with the underlying corpus. The extracted entities are added to the entity set V, and the extracted triplets are incorporated into the edge set E. All entities and triplets obtained from the corpus together constitute the knowledge graph G. Statistics for this constructed graph are provided in Table 5. 4.2 Pipeline of TeaRAG Leveraging the Wikipedia corpus and its knowledge graph, the system can perform hybrid retrieval to autonomously address problems. In agentic RAG, conventional retrieval methods are confined to semantic retrieval [ 27, 54], graph retrieval [ 39, 77], or their naive concatenation [ 50, 67, 77], overlooking both their complementary strengths and the strong relevance signal from their co- occurrence. Semantic retrieval offers rich background and conceptual context but suffers from low information density, noise [2, 40, 73], and inefficient token use. Conversely, graph retrieval yields high-density triplets containing precise facts but lacking contextual grounding. Besides, when a chunk from semantic retrieval and a triplet from graph retrieval correspond to the same source data, their co-occurrence constitutes a