application scenarios, data is directly obtained from various non-homologous formats and trans- formed into a unified, normalized representation. Specifically, file names and metadata are parsed, and the domains to which the files belong are categorized. Subsequently, the data content is parsed and stored in JSON-LD format, thereby transforming it into linked data. Finally, unique identifiers are assigned to the data, resulting in normalized datasets. Specifically, a unique adapter is designed for each distinct data format to facilitate data parsing. Although the imple- mentation frameworks of these adapters are largely similar, it is essential to differentiate between the parsing processes for structured, semi-structured, and unstructured data. For structured data, parsing involves storing tabular informa- tion in JSON format, where attribute variables within the file are managed using a Decomposition Storage Model (DSM). This approach enables the extraction of all attribute informa- tion for consistency checks through the use of column indices. In the case of semi-structured data, parsing corresponds to storing tree-shaped data in JSON format with multi-layer nested structures. This data format lacks column indices and does not support fast retrieval, necessitating the use of tree or graph retrieval algorithms, such as DFS, for efficient searching. Finally, for unstructured data, the focus is currently limited to textual information, which is stored directly. Subsequent steps involve leveraging LLMs for entity and relationship extraction tasks to obtain the relevant information. The final integration of multi-source data can be expressed by the following formula: DF usion = n[ i=1 Ai(Di) (2) where Ai ∈ { Adastru, Adasemi-s, Adaunstru}, representing the adapter parsing functions for structured data, semi- structured data, and unstructured data, respectively. Di ∈ {Dstru, Dsemi-s, Dunstru} represents the original datasets of struc- tured data, semi-structured data, and unstructured data, respec- tively. Through the parsed data DFusion = {Eq, Rq}, we further