(i.e., nodes without homologous data), which are also incorporated into the homologous triple line graph. Definition 6. Candidate graph confidence and candidate node confidence. For a query Q(q, G) on the knowledge graph G, the corresponding Homologous line graph SG′ is obtained. The candidate graph confidence is an estimation of the con- fidence in the candidate Homologous subgraph, assessing the overall credibility of the candidate graph; the candidate node confidence is an assessment of the confidence in individual node to determine the credibility of single attribute node. III. M ETHODOLOGY A. Framework of MultiRAG This section elaborates on the implementation approach of MultiRAG. As shown in Fig. 3, the first step involves segmenting and extracting multi-source data to construct the corresponding MLG, achieving preliminary aggregation of multi-source data; the second step requires reconstructing the MLG and performing subgraph extraction to identify candi- date homologous subgraphs, ensuring consistent storage of homologous data for subsequent hallucination assessment; the third step involves calculating the graph-level and node-level confidence of the candidate subgraphs, eliminating low-quality nodes to enhance the credibility of the response, and returning the extracted trustworthy subgraphs to the LLM to form the final answer. Finally, integrating the aforementioned steps to form the Multi-source Line Graph Prompting algorithm, MKLGP. B. Multi-source Line Graph Construction The MultiRAG method initially employs an adapter struc- ture to integrate multi-source data and standardize its storage Fig. 3: Framework of MultiRAG, including three modules. format. For practical application scenarios, data is directly obtained from various non-homologous formats and trans- formed into a unified, normalized representation. Specifically, file names and metadata are parsed, and the domains to which the files belong are categorized. Subsequently, the data content is parsed and stored in JSON-LD format, thereby transforming it into linked data. Finally, unique identifiers are assigned to the data,