3) Incomplete inference paths : Forming a comprehensive inference path from different data sources is challenging. Existing retrievers often fail to capture the complete logical associations within multiple data sources. Fig. 1 vividly illustrates the differences between single- source and multi-source data retrieval through CA981 flight analysis. The sparse distribution and inconsistency of data are unique issues in multi-source data retrieval, leading to severe hallucination bias in LLMs. Against this backdrop, we focus on addressing the issue of retrieval hallucinations in multi-source data retrieval to empower knowledge-augmented generation. This work primarily explores the following two fundamental challenges: 1) Sparse Distribution of Multi-source Data : Multi- domain queries require fusing structured (SQL tables), semi-structured (JSON logs), and unstructured data (text reports). Due to the variability in data storage formats and sparsity, the connectivity between knowledge ele- ments is low, making it difficult for RAG systems to effectively capture logical associations across sources, thereby affecting the recall rate and quality of retrieval results. 2) Inter-source Data Inconsistency: Conversely, the inher- ent diversity in knowledge representations across multi- source data often leads to inconsistencies in retrieved fragments. These discrepancies may induce information conflicts during retrieval processes, thereby compromis- ing response accuracy. This challenge becomes particu- larly pronounced in domain-specific complex reasoning and multi-hop question answering tasks. To address these issues above, we propose MultiRAG, a novel framework designed to mitigate hallucination in multi- source retrieval augmented generation through knowledge- guided approaches. Initially, we introduce multi-source line graphs for rapid aggregation of knowledge sources to tackle issues arising from sparse data distribution. Subsequently, based on these integrated multi-source line graphs, we propose a multi-level confidence calculation method to ensure the reliability of multi-source data queries. This approach not only enhances query efficiency but also strengthens the accuracy of results, providing an effective solution for