method that refines the reasoning process through iterative retrieval. • ChatKBQA [45] is a conversational interface-based method for knowledge base question answering. • MDQA [46] is a method designed to extract answers from multiple documents effectively. • FusionQuery [34] is a SOTA method based on the efficient on-demand fusion query framework. • RQ-RAG [47] is a method that integrates external docu- ments and optimizes the query process to handle complex queries. • MetaRAG [9] is a method that employs metacognitive strategies to enhance the retrieval process. e) Dataset Preprocessing : To better align the datasets with real-world application scenarios and to demonstrate the applicability of the proposed method to multi-source data, we have split and reconstructed the four datasets into three categories of data formats: tabular data (structured data), nested JSON data (semi-structured data), and XML data (semi- structured data), stored respectively in csv, json, and xml file formats. We also retained some data directly stored in KG format. Table I displays the detailed statistics after the dataset division. B. Evaluation of Multi-source Knowledge Aggregation (MKA) Q1: How does the retrieval recall performance of Mul- tiRAG compare with other data fusion models and SOTA data retrieval models? To validate the effectiveness of the multi-source knowledge aggregation module (MKA) in MultiRAG, we assess it using F1 scores and query times across four multi-source query datasets. By substituting the fusion query algorithm with different baseline models and SOTA models, multiple sets of experimental results are botained to evaluate its performance in multi-domain querying. Table II summarizes the data querying performance of MKLGP and baselines on the four datasets; Q1 focuses solely on the F1 scores of the methods, which includes four data fusion methods and three SOTA methods that support data fusion. Table II demonstrates that the MCC module outperforms all comparative