of Multi-level Confidence Computing Calculating the confidence of subgraphs and nodes to filter trustworthy answers is of significant demand in critical do- mains such as finance and law. Considering the high temporal and spatial overhead of directly calculating the confidence of all nodes, we draw inspiration from the workflow of recommendation systems, mimicking the process of coarse and fine ranking, and adopt the multi-level confidence computing method to filter credible nodes and enhance retrieval perfor- (a) F1 Score in Movies (b) F1 Score in Books (c) F1 Score in Flights (d) F1 Score in Stocks Fig. 5: Experimental results of Q2, where (a) and (b) display the multi-source data sparsity experiments, and (c) and (d) display the multi-source data consistency experiments. (a) Efficiency-Accuracy Tradeoff of Movies Dataset (b) Efficiency-Accuracy Tradeoff of Books Dataset Fig. 6: F1 score and Query Time of Movies and Books with corruption level 0%, 10%, 30%, 50%, 70% in different sources mance. Calculating the credibility of homologous subgraphs allows us to preliminarily determine whether the subgraphs containing answers can generate highly credible answers. For subgraphs with low confidence, more nodes need to be extracted to ensure the robustness of the overall retrieval; for subgraphs with high confidence, only 1-2 nodes are required to generate the correct answer. Q3: How effective are the two modules of MultiRAG individually? a) Ablation Study on Component Effectiveness: The MKA module achieves significant efficiency-accuracy synergy through its MLG architecture. As shown in Table III, MLG construction introduces modest preprocessing time (12.7s- 39.2s) while delivering 10-100× query acceleration. Specifi- cally, the flight dataset shows QT reduction from computa- tional infeasibility (marked NAN) to 29.8s through MLG’s compact structure. Concurrently, MKA sustains consistent accuracy improvements. Removing MKA causes F1 drops of 7.3% on Movies and 9.6% on Books, demonstrating MLG’s effectiveness in connecting