introduce multi-source line graphs for rapid aggregation of knowledge sources to tackle issues arising from sparse data distribution. Subsequently, based on these integrated multi-source line graphs, we propose a multi-level confidence calculation method to ensure the reliability of multi-source data queries. This approach not only enhances query efficiency but also strengthens the accuracy of results, providing an effective solution for the multi-source knowledge-guided RAG. The contributions of this paper are summarized as follows: 1) Multi-source Knowledge Aggregation : In the knowl- edge construction module, we introduce multi-source line graphs as a data structure for rapid aggregation and reconstruction of knowledge structures from mul- tiple query-relevant data sources. This effectively cap- tures inter-source data dependencies within chunk texts, thereby providing a unified and centralized representa- tion of multi-source knowledge. 2) Multi-level Confidence Calculation: In the retrieval module, we perform graph-level and node-level con- fidence calculations on the extracted knowledge sub- graphs. The aim is to filter out and eliminate low-quality subgraphs and inconsist retrieval nodes, ultimately en- hancing the quality of text embedded in context to alleviate retrieval hallucinations. 3) Experimental Validation and Performance Compar- ison: We conducted extensive experiments on existing multi-source retrieval datasets and two complex Q&A datasets, comparing our approach with existing state-of- the-art(SOTA) methods. This demonstrated the robust- ness and accuracy of our proposed method in retrieval performance. Particularly in multi-source data retrieval tasks, our method significantly outperforms other SOTA methods by more than 10%. II. PRELIMINARY In the field of Knowledge-Guided RAG, the primary chal- lenges include efficiently accessing relevant knowledge and achieving reliable retrieval performance. This section intro- duces the core elements of our approach and precisely defines the problems we address. Let Q = {q1, q2, . . . , qn} be the set of query instances, where each qi corresponds to a distinct