[13]–[20]. On the other hand, the collaboration between LLMs and KGs has significantly improved performance in multi-hop and multi-document question answering, including the credibility and interpretability of retrieval [21]. Furthermore, LLM-KG collaborative methods have also provided the latest solutions for knowledge-intensive retrieval tasks [22]–[26], propelling the deep reasoning capabilities of RAG. Nevertheless, existing frameworks still fail to account for the complexity of real-world data. Although RAG can mitigate the generation of hallucinations, these hallucinations often stem from the internal knowledge of LLMs [27]–[29]. Incon- sistent information sources and unreliable retrieval methods can still lead to retrieval biases and hallucinations in LLMs. This issue becomes particularly pronounced when dealing with information retrieval tasks that involve multi-source knowl- edge, where hallucinations are more prominent. Research [30] indicates that approximately 70% of retrieved paragraphs do not directly contain the correct query answers but instead include information indirectly related to the answers, causing misguidance and comprehension bias in LLMs. Building upon the categorization of hallucinations in re- trieval [9], we outlines the three most common types of hallucinations encountered in multi-source data retrieval: arXiv:2508.03553v1 [cs.IR] 5 Aug 2025 Fig. 1: Single-source Retrieval & Multi-source Retrieval 1) Inter-source data inconsistency : Discrepancies be- tween different data sources can lead to conflicting information, causing hallucinations in LLMs. 2) Redundancy of similar data : There often exists data that is highly similar and semantically equivalent across multiple data sources, which can impose significant computational overhead on retrieval. 3) Incomplete inference paths : Forming a comprehensive inference path from different data sources is challenging. Existing retrievers often fail to capture the complete logical associations within multiple data sources. Fig. 1 vividly illustrates the differences between single- source and multi-source data retrieval through CA981 flight analysis. The sparse distribution and inconsistency of data are unique issues in multi-source data