system implement ation, ensuring that organizations can effectively manage the complexities of AI deployment while adhering to ethical , legal, and operational standards. 6.1.1 Architectural and T echnological Governance Given the distinct differences between AI systems and tradi tional information systems, signiﬁcant updates to archite c- tural and technological governance are required: Architectural Review Board For AI implementations, the Architectural Review Board mus t establish processes to differentiate between cloud-based and on-premise infrast ructure. It is essential to make informed decisions regardi ng the use of on-premise AI models versus API-based AI models, c onsidering factors such as data security, performance, and scalability. Standard and Procedural Governance This aspect covers the development and enforcement of standards, guidelines, and best practices for integrating AI capabilities within b oth existing and new applications. Prompt Engineering Governance The effectiveness of an AI system, particularly those lever aging large language models (LLMs), heavily depends on the clarity, structure, a nd ﬂexibility of the prompts used to guide the model’s responses. With LLMs, prompt engineering lies at the heart o f the system. Therefore, it is important to discuss this 22 Deploying Large Language Models with Retrieval Augmented G eneration new governance for prompt engineering in more detail to ensu re consistency, reusability, and maintainability of these prompts. Structuring the prompt templates through standardization is crucial for maintaining consistency across different ap - plications and teams. These templates should be designed to be adaptable, allowing for easy customization while maintaining a core structure that ensures reliability. In a ddition, using a modular design, such as breaking the prompt into sections for preﬁx, context, instructions, and output format, allows teams to reuse and repurpose different secti ons of the prompt across various scenarios, enhancing efﬁcienc y and reducing the need for constant re-engineering. To enable reusability