offerings for vari- ous use cases. Good in AI ser- vices like V ertex AI, Vision AI. Watson offers strong AI ser- vices, especially NLP and ML. Growing AI offer- ings but less com- prehensive. Ease of Use and Integra- tion Highly intuitive, strong integration with AWS ser- vices and other systems. Highly intuitive, strong integration with Azure ser- vices and other systems. Seamless with Google services; challenging with third-party. Developing, good with IBM ecosystem. Decent, but less user-friendly. Performance and Scala- bility Highly scalable AI-optimized infrastructure. Strong scalability with specialized VMs. Excellent per- formance in data-heavy tasks. Limited scalabil- ity, expensive. Decent, but less scalable. Cost Efﬁ- ciency Competitive pric- ing, expensive for large-scale AI. Flexible pricing, competitive. Cost-effective, especially with TPUs. Cost-effective Watson services, but requires higher invest- ment. Competitive, but Oracle-centric. AI- Optimized Hardware Advanced AI- platforms like Inferen- tia, Trainium, NVIDIA GPUs. Wide range of AI- optimized VMs with NVIDIA GPUs. Leading-edge TPUs for AI/ML workloads. PowerAI with NVIDIA GPUs, evolving. Solid hardware options, less innovation. Generative AI capabil- ity Comprehensive AI services, in- cluding Amazon Bedrock, Ama- zon Q, Amazon Lex Comprehensive AI services, ac- cess to OpenAI models (GT-4, Dall-E, Codex). Comprehensive AI services, in- cluding image and music gener- ation. Limited models, focus on textual services. Limited models, focus on chatbots, summarization. Support and Com- munity Large developer community, strong support. Large developer community, strong support. Large developer community, backed by Google AI re- search. Strong support, smaller commu- nity. Good support, smaller commu- nity. The success of any AI application, especially those leverag ing large language models, is closely tied to the infrastruc - ture and services provided by major cloud providers. Studie s [36] show that cloud giants like Amazon, Microsoft, and Google offer a comprehensive suite of AI and infrastruct