arXiv:2411.11895v1 [cs.IR] 7 Nov 2024 DEPLOYING LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS WITH RETRIEVAL AUGMENTED GENERATION Sonal Prabhune and Donald J. Berndt University of South Florida Tampa, Florida, USA {saprabhune@usf.edu, dberndt@usf.edu} ABSTRACT Knowing that the generative capabilities of large language models (LLM) are sometimes hampered by tendencies to hallucinate or create non-factual respons es, researchers have increasingly focused on methods to ground generated outputs in factual data. Retr ieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a key approach for integrating knowledge from data sources outside of the LLM’s training set, including proprietary and up-to-date inform ation. While many research papers explore various RAG strategies, their true efﬁcacy is tested in real -world applications with actual data. The journey from conceiving an idea to actualizing it in the real world is a lengthy process. We present insights from the development and ﬁeld-testing of a pilot pr oject that integrates LLMs with RAG for information retrieval. Additionally, we examine the impac ts on the information value chain, encom- passing people, processes, and technology. Our aim is to ide ntify the opportunities and challenges of implementing this emerging technology, particularly wi thin the context of behavioral research in the information systems (IS) ﬁeld. The contributions of thi s work include the development of best practices and recommendations for adopting this promising technology while ensuring compliance with industry regulations through a proposed AI governance model. Keywords Retrieval Augmented Generation · Large Language Models · AI Governance · Human Artiﬁcial Intelligence Systems 1 Introduction Recently, the landscape of artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) has changed drastically. With the emergence of large language models and their capabilities of generating textual respon ses based on various prompting techniques. A recent article by Bloomberg Intelligence (BI) [1] on the explosive growth of generative AI in the next d ecade predicts, “With the inﬂux of