value triples. However, ge nerating knowledge graphs from proprietary documents pose s signiﬁcant challenges, especially when dealing with incon sistently structured documents that have evolved over time within various departments of an organization. Fine-tuning, including Parameter Efﬁcient Fine-Tuning (PEFT), also presents challenges. While PEFT is less resource - intensive than traditional ﬁne-tuning, it still requires c reating a training set, training the model, and evaluating i ts performance. This process can be time-consuming, making it slower to develop compared to simply storing embed- dings in vector databases. Nonetheless, research [40] indi cates that combining ﬁne-tuning with data augmentation can enhance retrieval accuracy, making it a viable option depen ding on the available resources, budget, and timeline. 5 Evaluation Incorporating quality assurance and testing from the early stages of product development is essential, especially whe n dealing with advanced technologies like LLMs and semantic r etrieval, which differ signiﬁcantly from traditional key- word search systems. The testing strategies, cases, and pla ns must be adapted to address the unique challenges posed 18 Deploying Large Language Models with Retrieval Augmented G eneration by LLMs. Additionally, evaluating the sociotechnical aspe cts of the system through user surveys provides valuable insights into the effectiveness and acceptance of the techn ology. To assess the qualitative aspects of the application, we con ducted pre- and post-surveys with identiﬁed pilot users. Th e pre-survey (Appendix B), discussed earlier, was aimed at ev aluating user readiness and expectations. After the pilot run, a post-survey (Appendix C) was conducted to gather feed back on the application’s performance, user satisfaction, and areas for improvement. Detailed results are tabulated i n Table 6 5.1 T est Strategies Testing LLM-based systems necessitates a distinct approac h from traditional software testing methodologies. Estab- lishing a ground truth dataset is crucial for assessing the