emerging as a signiﬁcant application of LLMs, our ﬁndings indicate that it remains in its early sta ges, with many organizations still navigating the complex- ities of its deployment. The rapid evolution of underlying t echnologies adds to the challenge, making it a continuously moving target. In addition to addressing technical challenges, our resear ch has also contributed to AI governance frameworks and best practices essential for successfully integrating RAG systems. We proposed governance models that account for the unique demands of AI systems, emphasizing the need for st ructured prompt engineering, comprehensive risk management, ethical considerations, and ongoing system ev aluation. These governance recommendations provide organizations with a robust foundation for ensuring that th eir AI implementations are effective and compliant with emerging standards and regulations. By sharing the lessons learned and best practices from our ﬁe ld study, we aim to offer a practical framework that organizations can use to overcome these obstacles. The insi ghts gained from our research offer valuable guidance for 26 Deploying Large Language Models with Retrieval Augmented G eneration both technical and governance aspects for those embarking o n similar ventures, helping to ensure that the challenges of integrating RAG into production environments can be more effectively addressed. We hope that these contributions will support the broader adoption and reﬁnement of RAG syste ms, advancing both industry practice and academic research in this area. References [1] Oktavia Catsaros. Bloomberg. https://www.bloomberg.com/company/press/generative- ai-to-become-a-1-3-trilli Accessed: 2023-12-16. [2] Edward J Hu, Y elong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Z hu, Y uanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.09685 , 2021. [3] Xiao Liu, Kaixuan Ji, Yicheng Fu, Weng Lam Tam, Zhengxiao Du, Zhilin Y ang, and Jie Tang. P-tuning v2: Prompt tuning can be comparable to