A Appendix A.1 Functional Requirements 1. Natural Language Understanding (NLU): The application s hould be able to understand and interpret user inputs accurately, even when the language used is informal o r contains typos. 2. Contextual Understanding: The application should maint ain the context of a conversation, allowing it to provide relevant responses and follow up on previous intera ctions. 3. Multi-Platform Compatibility: The application archite cture should be compatible with various platforms, including websites, mobile apps, and social media platform s. 4. Integration with Existing Systems: The application shou ld be able to integrate with existing enterprise sys- tems to access and provide relevant information. 5. It should support various interfaces to various document formats, such as (a) Written documents (PDFs, Word, Excel, etc.) (b) Organization’s internal communicator data. (c) Integrate various existing databases. 6. Self-Learning: The application should consume individu al documents or documents placed in a speciﬁc directory. 7. When new documents are placed into a speciﬁed directory, t he application shall check on an interval time for new documents to ingest and add to the indexes. 8. User Authentication: The application should be able to au thenticate users to provide personalized services and handle sensitive information securely. 9. User sessions should be separated so that one user’s quest ions and answers are not mixed between conversa- tions. 10. Authentication should be done as a Single Sign On (SSO) wi th the organization’s Active Directory 11. The application should support various authorization l evels at individual and group levels. 12. Response Time: The application should respond to user in puts within a reasonable time frame, ensuring a smooth and efﬁcient user experience. 29 Deploying Large Language Models with Retrieval Augmented G eneration A.2 Non-Functional Requirements 1. Scalability: The application should be able to handle man y simultaneous