This research and ﬁeld study uncovered several technologic al, enterprise, and human factors that must be addressed as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems continue to evolve. From a technological perspective, one major challenge encountered was the limitations associated with using external AI models like C HATGPT via APIs, such as rate limits, delayed responses, and token constraints. T hese limitations directly impact the performance and scal- ability of RAG applications, requiring careful considerat ion of model selection, token management, and response optimization. 25 Deploying Large Language Models with Retrieval Augmented G eneration On the enterprise front, the use of external APIs for large la nguage models (LLMs) necessitates a rigorous assessment of the proprietary information being exposed to these model s, particularly in sensitive contexts where data security i s paramount. Gaining stakeholder buy-in and securing budget allocations are critical steps in developing systems based on emerging technologies. This highlights the importance o f robust AI governance frameworks, which we addressed in our study by proposing governance models that account for th e unique requirements of AI systems, including prompt engineering, risk management, and legal compliance. Our pilot phase underscored the importance of managing user expectations for the successful deployment of AI-based applications. We found that user training is critical, part icularly in question-and-answer interactions, where poor ly framed questions can result in inaccurate or misleading res ponses. By educating users on how to interact effectively with AI systems, many of these issues can be mitigated, leadi ng to improved overall system performance and user satisfaction. In addressing the challenges we faced, we encountered issues similar to those documented by Hevner et al. [14] in their research on the design of human-artiﬁcial intelligence sys tems (HAIS). These challenges included selecting appropri - ate technologies amid legal and compliance constraints, ma naging