graphs due to its support for property graph structures, Cypher- based querying, and hierarchical traversal. Neo4j facilitates semantic subgraph extraction, multi-hop reasoning through efficient path queries, community-level summarization through clustering algorithms, and seam- less integration with domain-specific ontologies, such as UMLS or legal taxonomies, in GraphRAG pipelines. Neo4j is employed by production- level implementations such as Microsoft GraphRAG and MedGraphRAG to facilitate real-time entity retrieval, scalable domain-adaptive graph augmentation, and enhance evidence traceability. 5.5.2 Microsoft GraphRAG Implementation The innovative approach of Microsoft GraphRAG generates knowledge graphs from unstructured text autonomously using large language models, constructing entity-relationship networks through community discovery techniques [21]. Robust industry adoption and endorsement of the graph- based methodology were demonstrated by the over 20,000 GitHub stars that the open-source release in July 2024 received. The publicly docu- mented GraphRAG specification and project notes provide implementation guidance and examples for production use [79]–[80], [83]. The system utilizes a three-phase methodology: entity extraction by GPT-4 with specialized prompts, relationship mapping through co-occurrence anal- ysis and semantic similarity, and community recognition with the Leiden algorithm for hierarchical clustering [71]. Every community produces multi- tiered summaries that facilitate both localized entity-specific inquiries and overarching community-level assessments. 5.5.3 MedGraphRAG Domain-Specific Implementation MedGraphRAG implements a triple-tier architecture that links user docu- ments to medical textbooks and the UMLS knowledge store, demonstrating 24 superior performance on medical question-and-answer benchmarks [72]. The system shows significant improvements on the RobustQA benchmark com- pared to alternative methods, while achieving operational efficiency com- pared to conventional RAG implementations. 5.6 Agentic and AutoRAG Architectures: Autonomous Op- timization Systems Agentic and AutoRAG architectures are at the forefront of autonomous AI systems, combining AI agents with RAG pipelines to facilitate dynamic decision-making, self-optimization, and multi-agent coordination [73], [74]. Research indicates that sophisticated adaptation capabilities and autonomous system management result in