Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) systems, focusing on two distinct approaches:using OpenAI’s Assistant API (GPT Series) and an open-source Large Language Model (LLM) Llama and thus divided into two subsections[4.2.1][4.2.2]. The objective is to equip developers with the knowledge and practical steps necessary to implement RAG systems effectively, while highlighting common mistakes and best practices at each stage of the process. Each subsection is designed to provide practical insights into setup, development, integration, customization and optimization to generate well-grounded and aligned outputs. In addition to the two primary approaches discussed in this guide there are several alternative frameworks and methodologies for developing Retrieval Aug- mented Generation (RAG) systems. Each of these options such as Cohere, AI21’s Jurassic-2, Google’s PaLM, and Meta’s OPT have their merits and trade-offs in terms of deployment flexibility, cost, ease of use, and performance. We have selected OpenAI’s Assistant API (GPT Series) and Llama for this guide based on their wide adoption, proven capabilities, and distinct strengths in developing RAG systems. As highlighted in comparison Table[2] OpenAI’s Assistant API provides a simple and developer-friendly black-box, allowing quick integration and deployment without the need for extensive model management or infrastructure setup with high quality outputs. In contrast, as an open-source model, Llama allows developers to have full control over the model’s architecture, training data, and fine-tuning process, allowing for precise customization to suit specific requirements such as demand control, flexibility, and cost-efficiency. This combination makes these two options highly valuable for diverse RAG system development needs. 12 Table 2: Comparison of RAG Approaches: OpenAI vs. Llama F eature OpenAI’s Assistant API (GPT Series) Llama (Open-Source LLM Model) Ease of Use High. Simple API calls with no model management Moderate. Requires setup and model management Customization Limited to prompt engineer- ing and few-shot learning High. Full access to model