5.2 Participants (a) Job Titles of Participants (b) Primary Area of Expertise Fig. 3: Demographic Information from Participants We collected feedback from a small but diverse group of participants during a workshop. A total of 8 individuals completed a demographics form, which pro- vided us with an understanding of the participants’ backgrounds and technical expertise. The group consisted of individuals with varying levels of experience 30 in machine learning, natural language processing (NLP), and using tools for Re- trieval Augmented Generation (RAG). The participants although had familiarity with Python language and OpenAI models. 5.3 Key Feedback Points During the session, participants shared their thoughts on how much their un- derstanding of RAG systems improve after the workshop, which aspect of the workshop did they find most valuable, challenges they faced and what sugges- tions or comments they want to provide for future improvement.Below are the key points highlighted by the participants. Fig. 4: Participants’ Familiarity with RAG Systems. Prior to attending the workshop, the majority of participants reported a rea- sonable level of familiarity with RAG systems.This indicated that the audience had a foundational understanding of the concepts presented, allowing for more in depth discussions during the workshop. After the workshop, there was a notable improvement in participants’ understanding of RAG systems. Fig. 5: Participants’ Improvement in Understanding RAG Systems. The majority of participants highlighted the practical coding exercises as the most valuable aspect of the workshop, which helped them better understand the 31 Fig. 6: Most Valuable Aspects of the Workshop. implementation of RAG systems. Additionally, several participants mentioned the discussions with peers and instructors as a key takeaway. 5.4 Incorporating Feedback to Improve the Guide The evaluation also revealed opportunities for improvement of guide, particularly in enhancing the clarity of instructions and streamlining the implementation process. The most