a folder named Upload in the project directory, and place all the selected PDFs inside this folder. Common Mistakes and Best Practices Mistake: Irrelevant or inconsistent data Poor-structured data in PDFs downgrades the quality of embeddings generated for Large Language Models (LLMs), hindering them to understand and process the content more accurately. Best Practice: Ensure data consistency and relevance All PDFs uploaded to the vector store are consistent in format and highly relevant to the problem domain. Best Practice: Use descriptive file names and metadata Us- ing descriptive file names and adding relevant metadata can help with debugging, maintenance, and retrieval tasks. Files should be named in a way that reflects their content or relevance to the RAG system. The following Python code defines a function to upload multiple PDF files from a specified directory to OpenAI vector store, which is a common data structure used for storing and querying high-dimensional vectors, often for machine learning and AI applications. It ensures the directory and files are valid before proceeding with the upload and collects and returns the up- loaded files’ IDs. NOTE: The function is called to run only when a new vector store is created, meaning it won’t upload additional files to an existing vector store. You can modify the logic as needed to suit your requirements. Also, please be aware that the files are stored on external servers, such as 16 OpenAI’s infrastructure. OpenAI has specific policies regarding data access and usage to protect user privacy and data security. They state that they do not use customer data to train their models unless explicitly permitted by the user. For more details refer:https://openai.com/policies/privacy-policy/. Additionally, the data stored can be deleted easily when necessary either via code:https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/files/delete or from the user interface by clicking the delete button here: https://platform.openai.com/storage/files/. Code