constantly evolving information within dynamic sectors. They rely on static training data, leading to outdated or incom- plete answers. Thus they often lack transparency and accuracy in high stakes arXiv:2410.15944v1 [cs.SE] 21 Oct 2024 decision making. Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) presents a powerful solution to this problem. RAG systems pull in information from external data sources, like PDFs, databases, or websites, grounding the generated content in accurate and current data making it ideal for knowledge intensive tasks. In this report, we document our experience as a step-by-step guide to build RAG systems that integrates PDF documents as the primary knowledge base. We discuss the design choice, development of system, and evaluation of the guide, providing insights into the technical challenges encountered and the practical so- lutions applied. We detail our experience using both proprietary tools (OpenAI) and open-source alternatives (Llama) with data security, offering guidance on choosing the right strategy. Our insights are designed to help practitioners and researchers optimize RAG models for precision, accuracy and transparency that best suites their use case. 2 Background This section presents the theoretical background of this study. Traditional gen- erative models, such as GPT, BERT, or T5 are trained on massive datasets but have a fixed internal knowledge cut off based on their training data. They can only generate black box answers based on what they know, and this limitation is notable in fields where information changes rapidly and better explainabil- ity and traceability of responses is required, such as healthcare, legal analysis, customer service, or technical support. 2.1 What is RAG? The concept of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) models is built on in- tegrating two core components of NLP: Information Retrieval (IR) and Natural Language Generation (NLG). The RAG framework, first introduced by Lewis et al.[5] combines dense retrieval methods with large