QZero’s robustness, showcasing its compatibility with dense and sparse retrievers. The BM25 (sparse) retriever performs better on the Ohsumed dataset, which contains lengthy documents that most dense neural retriev- ers might struggle with. Interestingly, the BM25 retriever also out- performs the Contriever (dense) retriever on the Yummly dataset. This could be because Contriever’s training data was not well- suited for the speci/f_ic domain of recipes in Yummly. In contrast, the Contriever (dense) retriever excels in tasks related to News topics, general QA, and Wikipedia topics, domains likely aligning better with its training data. These /f_indings demonstrate how QZero adapts to the complementary strengths of each retrieval method, ultimately broadening its applicability across various use cases. 5.3 Analysis of QZero’s Outputs Table 5 shows that QZero’s capabilities go beyond simply classi- fying queries. Leveraging Wikipedia’s knowledge base generates insightful details for each query, including relevant categories and keywords. These insights illuminate the context of the query and verify its connection to speci/f_ic topics, enriching our understand- ing of the model’s predictions. For instance, for the query "Today’s executives address Lauer and Vieiera’s exit buzz, " QZero identi/f_ies categories like "American television shows, " con/f_irming and validat- ing the entertainment ground truth. Furthermore, QZero’s outputs can help in understanding the query’s focus. Even without prior sports knowledge, QZero’s outputs reveal the sports-related nature of the query "Martinez leaves bitter like Roger Clemens did almost exactly eight years earlier, Pedro Martinez has left the Red Sox apparently bitter about the way he was treated by management, " aiding in interpreting the model’s predictions. 10training datasets can be found: via:https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all- mpnet-base-v2 Our analysis of incorrect predictions reveals a few key sources of error. In some cases, the predicted topic and the annotated ground truth might diﬀer, but both could be valid interpretations of the