the accuracy of the GloVe embedding model starts to decline. This suggests that there’s a point of diminishing return where retrieving more documents starts to include irrelevant ones. Retrieving too many documents dilutes the pool of relevant categories that appropriately describe the input query, ultimately reducing QZero’s eﬀectiveness. 6 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK Embedding models present an eﬀective solution for zero-shot text classi/f_ication. However, the conventional method of retraining or /f_ine-tuning the entire model to improve embedding quality proves costly, especially in rapidly evolving domains. QZero addresses this challenge by oﬀering a training-free solution that improves the embedding quality. It achieves this through the adoption of a retrieval augmented query reformulation, which is considerably more cost-eﬀective to update. Our experiments and results demon- strate that QZero signi/f_icantly boosts classi/f_ication accuracy across a wide range of embedding models, ranging from smaller options ICTIR ’24, July 13, 2024, Washington DC, DC, USA Tassallah Abdullahi, Ritambhara Singh, and Carsten Eickhoﬀ Figure 2: Performance of All-mpnet and GloVe embedding models on selected datasets as a function of the number of document categories retrieved. (Contriever) CTV represents the dense retriever, and BM25 represents the sparse retriever. Table 5: QZero gives useful insights about a query. Input Query Returned Categories Top Keywords Ground Truth Predicted Topic Today’s executives address Lauer and Vieiera’s exit buzz 2010s American television talk shows, 2014 American television series debuts, 2016 American television series endings, English- language television shows, First-run syn- dicated television programs in the United States,... (television, 122), (people, 64), (/f_ilms, 62), (series, 53), (shows, 40), (episodes, 36), (language, 30), (news, 27), (books, 22) (births, 20) Entertainment Entertainment Why do I not walk correctly when I have sinusitis? Your equilibrium could be ’oﬀ’ due to your sinusitis, which could cause problems with your inner ear. ’Cancer, Head and neck cancer,