large, complex model. 2.4 Query Enrichment and Expansion Query enrichment, the process of reformulating or augmenting a query with supplementary information, has been widely explored in Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks as a means to enhance semantic understanding and overall performance. While earlier research predominantly concentrated on its utility in information retrieval tasks [37, 6, 32, 14, 4], recent investigations have extended its applicability to few-shot [9] and short-text classi/f_ication tasks [34]. Techniques leveraging linguistic resources like synonyms, knowledge graphs, and pseudo-relevance feedback have shown promising outcomes. Our work builds upon these prior studies by investigating the application of query enrichment speci/f_ically for zero-shot classi/f_ication tasks. 3 METHODOLOGY 3.1 QZero: The Retrieval Augmented Query Reformulation Pipeline We present QZero, a simple retrieval augmented query reformu- lation pipeline designed to enhance the zero-shot classi/f_ication performance of embedding-based models. This system enhances the representation of essential information by transforming input text into re/f_ined queries, resulting in richer embeddings. Figure 1 provides an illustration of the QZero pipeline. Consider the input example in the /f_igure: "Sam Altman to discuss possible collaboration with Anthropic. " The input text becomes a query to the retrieval system, which returns a list of relevant document categories. The /f_irst set of categories pertains to information about Sam Altman, ICTIR ’24, July 13, 2024, Washington DC, DC, USA Tassallah Abdullahi, Ritambhara Singh, and Carsten Eickhoﬀ while the second set describes Anthropic. Afterward, the original input is disregarded, and the reformulated query becomes the con- catenation of the retrieved categories. Subsequently, the embedding of the reformulated query is compared to the embeddings of the potential classes using cosine similarity. The class with the highest cosine similarity becomes the model’s prediction. In this section, we describe the components of the QZero pipeline in detail. 3.2 Knowledge Corpus We used Wikipedia 2