key- word extraction strategies to harness the extensive information encapsulated in the Wikipedia category as described below: • SpaCy’s POS tagging 3: it identi/f_ies keywords within a sen- tence by breaking down the sentence into tokens then, it employs a trained statistical model to analyze each token and assign it a Part-of-Speech (POS) tag. We selected only Noun tokens as keywords for our experiments. • Capitalization: SpaCy’s POS tagging struggles with proper nouns representing nationalities (e.g., Indians, Filipinos). To improve accuracy with such datasets, we switched to a sim- pler method based on word capitalization using simple Regex functions. • MedCAT [16]: When dealing with a specialized domain like medicine, we used the Medical Concept Annotation Tool. (MedCAT) for more precise extraction of medical terms and sentences. MedCAT is an open-source tool that was pre- trained to identify medical terms in sentences and link them to standardized medical vocabularies. 2We downloaded wiki version: enwiki-20230820-pages-articles-multistream.xml.bz2 3https://spacy.io/usage/linguistic-features 3.5 Query Reformulation QZero takes a query /u1D465as an input to the retrieval system (see Figure 1). The system ranks Wikipedia articles based on their relevance to the query and returns the categories associated with the top-ranked articles. We select the categories of the top 50 articles, ensuring comprehensive coverage of potentially relevant information. Each article has a varying number of categories, and similar categories might appear across multiple articles. Our approach retains all categories from each retrieved article and we also keep repeated categories to emphasize their potential importance. We explore the use case of the reformulated queries for contex- tual models that are optimized for generating meaningful embed- dings from sentences and static word embedding models optimized for word inputs (details in Section 3.6). The reformulated query for the contextual embedding models comprises a concatenation of all the retrieved categories. This concatenation process