to keep models updated [12, 33, 24, 1]. They also bene/f_it tasks like evidence-based modeling and text genera- tion by expanding vocabulary and facilitating domain adaptation. Despite their potential, retrieval models remain under-explored in improving the quality of embeddings in zero-shot text classi/f_ica- tion tasks. The QZero paradigm explores reformulating queries by retrieving supporting information from Wikipedia. This approach enhances the quality of input text and achieves better zero-shot classi/f_ication performance via embedding models without model retraining. QZero streamlines the classi/f_ication process by ensuring the embedding is enriched with a diverse vocabulary while remain- ing current with minimal resources. Our focus is speci/f_ically on improving models designed to produce embeddings, not generative or prompting models. Speci/f_ically, QZero adopts a two-step approach for zero-shot clas- si/f_ication tasks, as illustrated in Figure 1. First, it utilizes a retrieval model to identify relevant categories within supporting documents for the input text. These retrieved categories are then reformulated as the new input, depending on the type of embedding model used. We focus on static and contextual embeddings. Static embeddings represent words as /f_ixed vectors, regardless of their context. For example, the word "bank" will have the same vector representation whether it is used in the context of a /f_inancial institution or a river- bank. Contextual embeddings, on the other hand, assign diﬀerent vectors for the same word depending on its context in a sentence. For instance, the word "bank" will have diﬀerent vector representa- tions when used in diﬀerent contexts, capturing the nuances of its meaning based on surrounding words. QZero’s query reformulation pipeline adapts to the type of em- bedding model employed. For contextual embedding models, the concatenation of the categories serves as the reformulated input. Static word embedding models, on the other hand, utilize keywords and frequencies extracted from the retrieved categories.