between explicit and implicit queries for a text input whose ground truth class is Technology. In the explicit example, keywords like "Arti/f_icial Intelligence" di- rectly suggest Technology as the correct class. In contrast, the implicit example does clearly indicate the ground truth class. Here, a model’s ability to infer Technology heavily relies on prior knowl- edge stored within its representations. For example, if the model lacks prior knowledge that "Sam Altman" and "Anthropic" are re- lated to technology, it will fail to generate appropriate embeddings. ICTIR ’24, July 13, 2024, Washington DC, DC, USA Tassallah Abdullahi, Ritambhara Singh, and Carsten Eickhoﬀ Consequently, queries lacking suﬃcient contextual cues will result in reduced accuracy and recall. [20]. Table 1: Explicit and Implicit query formats example for a query with the ground truth Technology. In the Explicit query, the keyword Arti/f_icial Intelligence may directly sug- gest Technology as the potential label. Query Type De/f_inition Example Implicit The intended class category is implied but not stated Sam Altman to discuss possible collaboration with Anthropic Explicit The intended class category is clearly stated Sam Altman, the CEO of a popular Arti/f_icial In- telligence Tech company, is set to discuss possible collaboration with An- thropic, a signi/f_icant com- petitor We introduce QZero, a simple retrieval augmentation approach to enhance the quality of embeddings used in zero-shot classi/f_ica- tion. Retrieval systems have emerged as powerful, cost-eﬀective tools for various knowledge augmentation tasks, oﬀering access to relevant information to keep models updated [12, 33, 24, 1]. They also bene/f_it tasks like evidence-based modeling and text genera- tion by expanding vocabulary and facilitating domain adaptation. Despite their potential, retrieval models remain under-explored in improving the quality of embeddings in zero-shot text classi/f_ica- tion tasks. The QZero paradigm explores reformulating queries by retrieving supporting information from Wikipedia. This approach enhances