Accepted at the ICLR 2025: Advances in Financial AI Workshop OPTIMIZING RETRIEVAL STRATEGIES FOR FINANCIAL QUESTION ANSWERING DOCUMENTS IN RETRIEVAL - AUGMENTED GENERATION SYSTEMS Sejong Kim∗, Hyunseo Song∗, Hyunwoo Seo∗, Hyunjun Kim∗† KAIST Daejeon, South Korea {kingsj,ssongzzz,shw4166,hyunjun1121}@kaist.ac.kr ABSTRACT Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has emerged as a promising framework to mitigate hallucinations in Large Language Models (LLMs), yet its overall per- formance is dependent on the underlying retrieval system. In the finance domain, documents such as 10-K reports pose distinct challenges due to domain-specific vocabulary and multi-hierarchical tabular data. In this work, we introduce an ef- ficient, end-to-end RAG pipeline that enhances retrieval for financial documents through a three-phase approach: pre-retrieval, retrieval, and post-retrieval. In the pre-retrieval phase, various query and corpus preprocessing techniques are employed to enrich input data. During the retrieval phase, we fine-tuned state- of-the-art (SOTA) embedding models with domain-specific knowledge and im- plemented a hybrid retrieval strategy that combines dense and sparse representa- tions. Finally, the post-retrieval phase leverages Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) training and document selection methods to further refine the results. Eval- uations on seven financial question answering datasets—FinDER, FinQABench, FinanceBench, TATQA, FinQA, ConvFinQA, and MultiHiertt—demonstrate sub- stantial improvements in retrieval performance, leading to more accurate and contextually appropriate generation. These findings highlight the critical role of tailored retrieval techniques in advancing the effectiveness of RAG systems for financial applications. A fully replicable pipeline is available on GitHub: https://github.com/seohyunwoo-0407/GAR. 1 I NTRODUCTION Ensuring accuracy and reliability is paramount in the financial domain. Even minor errors or misin- terpretations within financial statements or regulatory filings can trigger significant economic losses and adversely impact investment decisions and compliance processes. (Rezaee, 2005) Motivated by these high-stakes challenges, this paper presents a specialized framework that integrates Large Language Models (LLMs) with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) tailored to the unique chal- lenges