exemplified by LLaMA Guard (Inan et al., 2023). Finally, adherence to ethical regulations in the finance domain and broader AI governance guide- lines, represented by EU’s Ethics guidelines for trustworthy AI (Commission et al., 2019), calls for robust monitoring and oversight when deploying this pipeline in real-world settings. Future research could focus on establishing systems that continually evaluate inference processes and generated outputs to prevent the spread of unnecessary or inaccurate information. Such systems must also detect and block any potential exposure of sensitive data or violations of regulatory standards, thereby ensuring responsible and compliant use of the proposed pipeline. 10 Accepted at the ICLR 2025: Advances in Financial AI Workshop REFERENCES Peter Anderson, Mano Vikash Janardhanan, Jason He, Wei Cheng, and Charlie Flanagan. Green- back bears and fiscal hawks: Finance is a jungle and text embeddings must adapt. In Franck Dernoncourt, Daniel Preot ¸iuc-Pietro, and Anastasia Shimorina (eds.), Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing: Industry Track , pp. 362– 370, Miami, Florida, US, November 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2024.emnlp-industry.26. Zhiyu Chen, Wenhu Chen, Charese Smiley, Sameena Shah, Iana Borova, Dylan Langdon, Reema Moussa, Matt Beane, Ting-Hao Huang, Bryan Routledge, and William Yang Wang. FinQA: A dataset of numerical reasoning over financial data. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2021. Zhiyu Chen, Shiyang Li, Charese Smiley, Zhiqiang Ma, Sameena Shah, and William Yang Wang. Convfinqa: Exploring the chain of numerical reasoning in conversational finance question an- swering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03849, 2022. Chanyeol Choi, Jy-Yong Sohn, Yongjae Lee, Subeen Pang, Jaeseon Ha, Hoyeon Ryoo, Yongjin Kim, Hojun Choi, and Jihoon Kwon. Acm-icaif ’24 financerag challenge. https://kaggle. com/competitions/icaif-24-finance-rag-challenge , 2024. Kaggle. European Commission, Content Directorate-General for Communications Networks, and Technol- ogy. Ethics guidelines