is paramount in the financial domain. Even minor errors or misin- terpretations within financial statements or regulatory filings can trigger significant economic losses and adversely impact investment decisions and compliance processes. (Rezaee, 2005) Motivated by these high-stakes challenges, this paper presents a specialized framework that integrates Large Language Models (LLMs) with Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) tailored to the unique chal- lenges of financial data. While LLMs have demonstrated impressive performance in natural lan- guage processing, they are not immune to limitations—particularly in specialized domains where hallucinations and misinterpretations can have critical issues. (Kerner, 2024). RAG is designed to mitigate these shortcomings by incorporating an additional retrieval step into the generation process. Rather than relying solely on pre-trained knowledge, the system first re- trieves pertinent information from external sources and subsequently integrates this data during the generation phase. This two-stage approach ensures that the LLM has access to the most relevant information before generating its response. By leveraging external knowledge sources, RAG signif- icantly enhances performance on domain-specific tasks. In this paper, we propose a novel RAG pipeline optimized for usage in the finance domain. Our key contributions span robust data preparation, domain adaptation, and effective information retrieval. ∗These authors contributed equally †Corresponding author 1 arXiv:2503.15191v1 [cs.IR] 19 Mar 2025 Accepted at the ICLR 2025: Advances in Financial AI Workshop First, we compared tailored preprocessing methods for preparing both user inputs and financial documents, ensuring our system effectively captures and utilizes context from complex and diverse data sources. Next, we utilized task-specific retrieval methods that leverages SOTA models to the unique language and structural features of financial information, thus improving retrieval perfor- mance. Finally, we implemented a reranking method, coupled with a novel method ( document selection), to guarantee that the final generated responses are grounded in the most accurate and relevant