our hybrid approach can adapt to different query types, giving weight to either exact matching or deeper semantic interpretation when necessary. This strategy is backed up by ensemble learning principles, where combining complementary methods leads to a more robust and effective retrieval system. 3.3 P OST-RETRIEVAL Reranking Reranking aims to further capture relevancy by leveraging larger models on top-K retrieved documents. Refined relevancy scores are calculated (usually) pairwise by Cross-Encoders and LLMs(D ´ejean et al., 2024). Despite requiring exponentially larger compute compared to Bi- Encoders, rerankers could be utilized on a small set of filtered documents to effectively emphasize underrepresented semantics with respect to the query. Document Selection While reranking effectively provides the top-K relevant documents, whether LLMs can correctly process the long context remains a challenge, e.g., Lost in the Middle(Liu et al., 2024). To enable optimal utilization of retrieved documents, we proposed document selection—selecting only the documents required to answer the query. 4 E XPERIMENTS This section details the experimental procedures, settings, and methodologies implemented to vali- date the theoretical contributions presented in Section 3. 4.1 E XPERIMENTAL SETUP Datasets To evaluate our proposed pipeline, we utilize a comprehensive set of 7 distinct financial document datasets, each representing various query types and document structures (refer to Table 1). These datasets are provided in the FinanceRAG Challenge(Choi et al., 2024), selected to cover Table 1: Dataset Descriptions DATASET DESCRIPTION FinDER∗ Real-world questions written by financial experts FinQABench Generated queries by LLM FinanceBench(Islam et al., 2023) Real-world questions written by non-experts TATQA(Zhu et al., 2021) Basic arithmetic questions FinQA(Chen et al., 2021) Complex arithmetic questions ConvFinQA(Chen et al., 2022) Questions asking for specific value from table values MultiHiertt(Zhao et al., 2022) Questions requiring multi-hop reasoning. *To be announced comprehensive and real-world financial question answering scenarios. Also, each text is chunked