A.3. The enhanced performance is also attributable to the targeted use of the selection agent to carefully utilize the top-10 documents. This integrated approach signif- icantly improves both the quality and efficiency of answer generation in financial tasks. 6 C ONCLUSION In this study, we presented an enhanced Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pipeline designed specifically for financial question answering documents. Our work integrates query and corpus preprocessing, embedder fine-tuning, hybrid retrieval, and reranking. These components work in accordance with each other to process complex financial documents effectively and enable Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate responses with improved accuracy and relevancy. Specifically, we employed multiple preprocessing techniques such as query expansion and corpus markdown restructuring to preserve the heterogeneous structure and subtle contextual information present in financial question answering datasets. In parallel, we fine-tuned embedding models to align them with the nuances of financial documents. By fusing sparse retrieval—which excels at precise keyword matching—with dense retrieval—which captures deep semantic relationships—our hybrid retrieval approach ensures that a comprehensive set of relevant documents is retrieved for each query. Moreover, the subsequent reranking stage refines the ordering of these documents to maximize their contextual relevance. Experimental results demonstrate significant improvements in retrieval as well as generation, most noted by the NDCG@10 scores. The observed increase in NDCG@10 indicates that our system re- 9 Accepted at the ICLR 2025: Advances in Financial AI Workshop trieves a more complete and relevant set of documents for each query, thereby resolving challenges related to information omission and hallucination. Overall, the results validate the robustness and effectiveness of our RAG pipeline in the finance do- main. The substantial performance gains and enhanced retrieval quality provide a reliable foundation for applications in financial contexts, where precise information retrieval and specialized expertise are critical. This work lays the groundwork for future