baselines. 1 Introduction Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) technol- ogy is a powerful technique for building capable and reliable AI systems (Lewis et al., 2020). By in- corporating external knowledge chunks into LLMs’ generation process, RAG enables more accurate responses and effectively mitigates the occurrence of hallucinations. RAG systems first segment the knowledge corpus into limited-size chunks, then Retrieval Embedding Model [Knowledge Chunk] Malaria is characterized by symptom clusters including ..., which exhibit both pathological overlaps and distinctive diagnostic indicators when compared to COVID-19. Generative Language Model Retrieval Embedding Model Generative Language Model [Knowledge Chunk] Three common clusters of symptoms have been identified: a respiratory symptom cluster …; a musculoskeletal symptom cluster with …; and a cluster of digestive symptoms … [Context] The manifestatio ns of COVID-19 vary depending on the type of variant contract- ed …… [Context] Published data on the neuropath ological changes related with COVID-19 … • Wiki Page Title: COVID-19 • Section Title: Symptoms and Signs[Metadata] Naive RAG HeteRAG Generation Generation 𝑄𝑄: What are the typical symptom clusters of COVID-19? Multi-Granular Contextual Signals COVID-19 Chunk Chunk Corpus Retrieved Chunks Retrieval (Highly Relevant)Retrieval (Less Relevant) Malaria Chunk Chunk Corpus Retrieved Chunks Figure 1: Naive RAG suffers retrieval inaccuracy due to identical chunk representations for retrieval/generation. The decoupled architecture of HeteRAG addresses this via contextual signal- and metadata-enhanced retrieval. retrieve relevant chunks by calculating the simi- larity between the user query and chunk encoded representations using the retrieval model. These re- trieved chunks are subsequently incorporated into the prompt for the LLM, allowing it to generate contextually informed responses. In typical RAG architectures, the retrieval and generation phases demonstrate distinct require- ments regarding knowledge chunk granularity. As interactive objects of the retriever, knowledge chunks are required to accurately match user queries to help the retrieval model find the most