HeteRAG: A Heterogeneous Retrieval-augmented Generation Framework with Decoupled Knowledge Representations Peiru Yang1, Xintian Li 1, Zhiyang Hu 2, Jiapeng Wang3, Jinhua Yin1, Huili Wang1, Lizhi He4, Shuai Yang4, Shangguang Wang3, Y ongfeng Huang1, Tao Qi3,* 1Tsinghua University, 2Xinjiang University, 3Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, 4JD Health International Inc. Abstract Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) meth- ods can enhance the performance of LLMs by incorporating retrieved knowledge chunks into the generation process. In general, the re- trieval and generation steps usually have differ- ent requirements for these knowledge chunks. The retrieval step benefits from comprehen- sive information to improve retrieval accuracy, whereas excessively long chunks may intro- duce redundant contextual information, thereby diminishing both the effectiveness and effi- ciency of the generation process. However, existing RAG methods typically employ iden- tical representations of knowledge chunks for both retrieval and generation, resulting in sub- optimal performance. In this paper, we pro- pose a heterogeneous RAG framework (Het- eRAG) that decouples the representations of knowledge chunks for retrieval and generation, thereby enhancing the LLMs in both effective- ness and efficiency. Specifically, we utilize short chunks to represent knowledge to adapt the generation step and utilize the correspond- ing chunk with its contextual information from multi-granular views to enhance retrieval accu- racy. We further introduce an adaptive prompt tuning method for the retrieval model to adapt the heterogeneous retrieval augmented gener- ation process. Extensive experiments demon- strate that HeteRAG achieves significant im- provements compared to baselines. 1 Introduction Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) technol- ogy is a powerful technique for building capable and reliable AI systems (Lewis et al., 2020). By in- corporating external knowledge chunks into LLMs’ generation process, RAG enables more accurate responses and effectively mitigates the occurrence of hallucinations. RAG systems first segment the knowledge corpus into limited-size chunks, then Retrieval Embedding Model