(Mistral-8b) Naive RAG (Gemma-9b) HeteRAG (Gemma-9b) PopQA HotpootQA TriviaQA Squad NQ0 20 40 60F1 Score(%) T opK=1 T opK=3 T opK=5 T opK=10 T opK=15 Figure 4: The RAG results under varying retrieval numbers (top-k). The left side shows the results of three LLMs on the HotpotQA dataset as they vary with top-k, using both naive RAG and HeteRAG. The right side displays the performance variation of HeteRAG across five different datasets under various top-k settings. removing the corresponding representations from the retrieval formulation in Eq 2. Ablation results are visualized in Fig 3, from which we have sev- eral findings. First, the complete HeteRAG frame- work (with both contextual signals and structured metadata) consistently outperforms its variant us- ing only the representations of knowledge chunks themselves. This demonstrates that explicitly mod- eling document-level, multi-granular context and metadata strengthens retrieval-side semantics, par- ticularly enhancing recall capability through com- plementary information fusion. Second, the rela- tive importance of these components varies across domains: contextual signals contribute more to per- formance gain on SciFact, while document-level metadata is more useful for TrevCOVID and NF- Corpus datasets. The results of our ablation study confirm that HeteRAG ’s multi-channel encoding effectively leverages both latent contextual patterns and explicit structural knowledge. 4.6 Top- k Retrieval Analysis Fig. 4 presents the experimental results under vary- ing Top-k retrieval settings, from which we draw the following observations. First, the left panel of Fig. 4 demonstrates the performance trajectories of different models and methods on the same dataset as k increases. We evaluate several commonly used k values in RAG systems (1, 3, 5, 10, 15). The re- sults reveal that compared to naive RAG, our Het- eRAG maintains consistent performance improve- ments across all k values. Furthermore, naive RAG exhibits noticeable performance degradation with larger k values,