trajectories of different models and methods on the same dataset as k increases. We evaluate several commonly used k values in RAG systems (1, 3, 5, 10, 15). The re- sults reveal that compared to naive RAG, our Het- eRAG maintains consistent performance improve- ments across all k values. Furthermore, naive RAG exhibits noticeable performance degradation with larger k values, likely due to excessive redundant information in retrieved content. Second, the right panel of Fig. 4 illustrates the performance variation of HeteRAG across different datasets. Notably, our method demonstrates positive correlation between larger k values and improved answer F1 scores on most datasets. These experimental results indicate that HeteRAG effectively balances comprehensive retrieval with generation efficiency and accuracy, successfully mitigating the common performance deterioration issue observed in baseline methods when processing larger retrieval sets. 5 Conclusion In this paper, we identify a limitation in existing RAG methods: the use of identical knowledge chunk representations for both retrieval and genera- tion, despite their distinct requirements. To address this, we propose HeteRAG, a heterogeneous RAG framework that decouples knowledge representa- tions to optimize retrieval accuracy as well as gen- eration efficiency and efficacy simultaneously. By leveraging multi-granular contextual signals and metadata for retrieval and concise chunks for gen- eration, our approach mitigates redundancy while preserving critical knowledge. Furthermore, we propose an adaptive prompt-tuning strategy for the retrieval model to adapt the heterogeneous retrieval augmented generation process. Extensive experi- ments across retrieval tasks and end-to-end genera- tion pipelines validate that HeteRAG significantly outperforms baseline methods. These results high- light the importance of tailoring knowledge repre- sentations to the unique demands of retrieval and generation steps. In general, this work provides a principled direction for advancing RAG systems by harmonizing the dual objectives of retrieval pre- cision and generation quality. 8 Limitations While HeteRAG