lower part of the figure. From lower-left to lower-right: Corrective RAG and Self-RAG modify the response of RAG after the document retrieval step. If the user’s question is ambiguous or lacks context, RAG cannot retrieve the most relevant documents, limiting the effectiveness of these methods. Another approach deconstructs the question into an AST and synthesizes SQL queries accordingly, improving query fidelity but only applicable to SQL queries. Our method reflects upon the question, identifies its context, and augments the question by querying a jargon dictionary before document retrieval. The augmented question allows RAG to faithfully retrieve the most relevant documents despite ambiguous jargon or lack of explicit context. Second, while identifying the context of the ques- tion is crucial for retrieving relevant documents, the actual questions asked by the user rarely con- tain context information. The mentioned approach (Kochedykov et al., 2023) trains a transformer- based text classifier to classify user’s question to a predefined set of contexts, but this requires col- lecting a dedicated training dataset with diverse questions, which is exceedingly laborious. To tackle these challenges, we propose Golden- Retriever, which enhances the traditional RAG framework with a reflection-based question aug- mentation step before document retrieval. Golden- Retriever identifies jargons and clarifies their mean- ing based on the context. By ensuring that the context is identified and ambiguities are resolved before document retrieval, Golden-Retriever sig- nificantly reduces the risk of misinterpretation and improves the relevance of retrieved documents. Golden-Retriever includes both offline and on- line processes. The offline part involves a data pre- processing step where Optical Character Recogni- tion (OCR) is used to extract text from various doc- ument formats. This text is then summarized and contextualized by LLMs to enhance the document database, ensuring that documents are more likely to be relevant when queried. Unlike existing