only ap- pear in proprietary documents, RAG’s LLM back- bone may hallucinate and misinterpret them. Ex- isting methods like Corrective RAG (Yan et al., 2024) and Self-RAG (Asai et al., 2023) enhance the LLM’s response post-retrieval. But when user’s question contains ambiguous jargons, RAG fails to retrieve the most relevant documents, limiting the effectiveness of post-retrieval enhancements. To disambiguate user’s question before retrieval, another approach (Kochedykov et al., 2023) de- constructs vague questions into an Abstract Syn- tax Tree (AST) and synthesizes SQL queries, im- proving query fidelity. But their work is limited to SQL instead of natural language documents. 1 arXiv:2408.00798v1 [cs.IR] 20 Jul 2024 Document Retrieval Question Response Corrective-RAG / Self-RAG Extracting Structured Query Golden Retriever Correct / Select Reflect / Critique Web Search Database Query Question Response AST SELECT … WHERE … Deconstruct Question Synthesis Query Document Retrieval Question Response Reflect & Identify Context Augmented Question Jargon Dictionary Jargon Query Augment Question See Fig. 2 See Fig. 3 Document Database LLM augmentation Offline Methods Online Methods Existing Methods Augment Data for Model Training LLM augmentation Model training/fine-tuning Model Prompt engineering Related Work Figure 1: An illustration comparing our method with related works. We consider two types of methods: offline and online. On the upper-left, existing offline methods use LLMs to generate datasets for training. The upper-right shows our offline method, using LLMs to enhance the document database for the online phase. Online methods are depicted in the lower part of the figure. From lower-left to lower-right: Corrective RAG and Self-RAG modify the response of RAG after the document retrieval step. If the user’s question is ambiguous or lacks context, RAG cannot retrieve the most relevant documents, limiting the effectiveness of these methods. Another approach deconstructs the question into an AST and synthesizes SQL queries accordingly, improving query