Retrieval Augmented Code Generation and Summarization Md Rizwan Parvez§, Wasi Uddin Ahmad §, Saikat Chakraborty † Baishakhi Ray† , Kai-Wei Chang§ §University of California, Los Angeles, † Columbia University §{rizwan, wasiahmad, kwchang}@cs.ucla.edu, † {saikatc, rayb}@cs.columbia.edu Abstract Software developers write a lot of source code and documentation during software develop- ment. Intrinsically, developers often recall parts of source code or code summaries that they had written in the past while implement- ing software or documenting them. To mimic developers’ code or summary generation be- havior, we propose a retrieval augmented framework, REDCODER, that retrieves rel- evant code or summaries from a retrieval database and provides them as a supplement to code generation or summarization mod- els. REDCODER has a couple of uniqueness. First, it extends the state-of-the-art dense re- trieval technique to search for relevant code or summaries. Second, it can work with re- trieval databases that include unimodal (only code or natural language description) or bi- modal instances (code-description pairs). We conduct experiments and extensive analysis on two benchmark datasets of code generation and summarization in Java and Python, and the promising results endorse the effectiveness of our proposed retrieval augmented framework. 1 Introduction In recent years, automating source code generation and summarization is receiving signiﬁcant attention due to its potential in increasing programmers’ pro- ductivity and reducing developers’ tedious work- load. Consequently, various approaches have been explored in the literature to facilitate code genera- tion (Yin and Neubig, 2017; Gu et al., 2016) and code documentation/summarization (Ahmad et al., 2020; Wei et al., 2019; Allamanis et al., 2018). Despite initial success, most of the generated code still suffers from poor code quality (Xu et al., 2021). Therefore, the question remains—how to generate better code from a given summary and vice versa. Source code generation and summarization, how- ever, are