HV-Attack: Hierarchical Visual Attack for Multimodal Retrieval Augmented Generation Linyin Luo1,2, Yujuan Ding1, Yunshan Ma3, Wenqi Fan1, Hanjiang Lai2 1The Hong Kong Polytechnic University 2Sun Yat-Sen University 3Singapore Management University luoly36@mail2.sysu.edu.cn, dingyujuan385@gmail.com, ysmasmu.edu.sg wenqifan03@gmail.com, laihanj3@mail.sysu.edu.cn Abstract Advanced multimodal Retrieval-Augmented Generation (MRAG) techniques have been widely applied to enhance the capabilities of Large Multimodal Models (LMMs), but they also bring along novel safety issues. Existing adversar- ial research has revealed the vulnerability of MRAG systems to knowledge poisoning attacks, which fool the retriever into recalling injected poisoned contents. However, our work considers a different setting:visual attack of MRAG by solely adding imperceptible perturbations at the image inputs of users, without manipulating any other compo- nents.This is challenging due to the robustness of fine- tuned retrievers and large-scale generators, and the effect of visual perturbation may be further weakened by propa- gation through the RAG chain. We propose a novel Hierar- chical Visual Attack that misaligns and disrupts the two in- puts (the multimodal query and the augmented knowledge) of MRAG’s generator to confuse its generation. We fur- ther design a hierarchical two-stage strategy to obtain mis- aligned augmented knowledge. We disrupt the image input of the retriever to make it recall irrelevant knowledge from the original database, by optimizing the perturbation which first breaks the cross-modal alignment and then disrupts the multimodal semantic alignment. We conduct extensive ex- periments on two widely-used MRAG datasets: OK-VQA and InfoSeek. We use CLIP-based retrievers and two LMMs BLIP-2 and LLaVA as generators. Results demonstrate the effectiveness of our visual attack on MRAG through the sig- nificant decrease in both retrieval and generation perfor- mance. 1. Introduction The robustness of multimodal Retrieval-Augmented Gen- eration (MRAG) [1, 13, 27, 33] systems is of great impor- (a) Knowledge poisoning attacks of text RAG models User Query: (Text)