In:problem statementUser’s problem statement Out:extracted text segmentPassage returned by the model Out:summarySingle concise sentence drawn from the passage Out:reasoningInternal chain of thought (ignored downstream) Out:confidenceModel reported confidence value (float) Fig. 2.Prompt for scanning, extraction, and sentence candidate generation. Verification (optional).Extractions may be double-checked for nugget cover- age and citation support. This step invokes prompts used by theAutoArgue system [26] albeit with the automatically-generated nuggets identified after the Nugget Ranking step; the LLM is prompted with a binary “YES/NO” question asking whether a candidate sentence is truly supported by the cited span or whether the nugget is truly covered by the candidate sentence and extracted passage. As this step risks leaking evaluator knowledge into the system, we also evaluate the system with this step skipped as “Crucible-Base”. Sentence selection.We rank the remaining candidates for each nugget by the extraction confidence and choose the topksentences (k= 1 herein; results for largerkare in the online appendix). This ensures that each sentence is tied to exactly one citation. Assembly .Selected sentences are concatenated into a report, ordered by nugget quality ranking. Sentences with same stopped/stemmed text are omitted. Because every sentence is self-contained and atomic, the order of sentences does not affect the readability. Every sentence cites exactly one document. 4 Evaluation Setup Dataset.We evaluate on the TREC NeuCLIR 2024 Report Generation Pilot [15], which requires drafting topic-focused reports supported by citations drawn from a multilingual corpus, where all language subsets are machine-translated to En- Incorporating Q&A Nuggets into Retrieval-Augmented Generation 5 glish. The topics are broad, e.g., “Roundup cases and Bayer”, yet each report must be tailored to the specific problem statement and user background. The collection’s evaluation tool,AutoArgue[26], uses held-out, manually curated gold-nugget banks. Compared systems.UsingLLaMA-3.3-70B-Instructand PlaidX retriever, we compare two variants ofCruciblewith state-of-the-art systems: Crucible-Base(ours),as described in Section 3 without the