while not providing the required information. We remark that GINGER was designed for the TREC RAG 24 [25] task and the Autonuggetizer [21] for evaluation. Ranking model.Crucibleobtains its great performance under all explored retrieval models. Retrievers that offer broad coverage and emphasize recall, such as Milco and Qwen3 consistently yield improvements on nugget metrics, but may hurt citation support. (These other retrievers do not change results onGinger.) Verification step.Using prompts to verify the nugget coverage separately from sentence extraction obtains small improvements—especially for the sentence nov- elty metric. However, independent verification of citation support leads to a 60% error reduction. After manual inspection, we believe that it is not that original citations were incorrect, but during verification we prefer sentences where the support is clearly articulated in the extracted document passage, which is ulti- mately helpful for the user to trust the system. Incorporating Q&A Nuggets into Retrieval-Augmented Generation 7 More experiments.Crucibleruns were submitted to several TREC 2025 tracks: DRAGUN, RAG, RAGTIME [5]. While many relevance judgments are not avail- able at the time of writing, we have some preliminary corroborating evidence. Costs.This system was designed to study possible quality improvements, not to obtain a fast system ready for deployment. The runtime cost is dominated by LLM calls. One of the most expensive steps is the paraphrasing detection of the nugget ideation withΘ(D 2) prompts, which could be scaled with finger printing and SimHash approaches. Other expensive steps are nugget scanning withΘ(N·D) LLM calls and verification withΘ(S)≈Θ(N·D) LLM prompts, these could be made more efficient by tracking the quality of extractions, and stopping whenksentences of sufficiently high quality have been found. Limitations.Crucibleis developed working closely with organizers of TREC NeuCLIR and developers of theAutoArgueevaluation system. As shown in Dietz et al. [6], this knowledge can lead to a distortion of