scanning withΘ(N·D) LLM calls and verification withΘ(S)≈Θ(N·D) LLM prompts, these could be made more efficient by tracking the quality of extractions, and stopping whenksentences of sufficiently high quality have been found. Limitations.Crucibleis developed working closely with organizers of TREC NeuCLIR and developers of theAutoArgueevaluation system. As shown in Dietz et al. [6], this knowledge can lead to a distortion of empirical evaluation results. Since, the verification phase, represents a circularity withAutoArgue, we offer results with and without this phase. We further study this potential vulnerability in the upcoming TREC 2026 Auto-Judge track. 6 Conclusion We demonstrate one example of how RAGE systems, which incorporate ideas from automatic evaluation (E) into RAG systems, can lead to significantly bet- ter performing systems. To substantiate this claim we introduceCrucible, a nugget-first pipeline that uses a bank of Q&A nuggets to guide retrieval, ex- traction, and final assembly. Optionally,Crucibleuses LLM-judge prompts as a verification steps. On the NeuCLIR benchmarkCrucibledecisively outper- formsGinger, demonstrating the practical benefits controlling the generation. The key insight behindCrucibleis that citation provenance can be lost whenever a system condenses raw text into latent or clustered summaries. Most contemporary RAG approaches either (1) struggle to avoid redundancy (e.g. FiD [13]) or (2) sever the explicit link between a generated sentence and its source document.Crucibleavoids both pitfalls by first constructing a set of canonical Q&A nuggets (any required clustering occurs at this stage) and only then extracting and summarizing sentences that address each nugget. The gen- erated report will contain the best sentence for each nugget, each sentence is supported with exactly one citation. Obtaining near-perfect citation support score of 0.9 (Crucible-Base) and 0.96 (Crucible-Verified) supports that either this solves the citation-support problem, or that we need more precise evaluation methods for citation support. We hope that future work will explore a greater