it is possi- ble to inject the intrinsic knowledge of LLMs into the entity in the process of building the graph, it is difficult to compensate for the comprehensive 1 arXiv:2601.05254v2 [cs.IR] 12 Jan 2026 understanding of the complete resource library. Based on the above issues, we revisit GraphRAG and present the following two research questions. • (RQ1) How to enhance the global knowl- edge graph representation and reasoning with low resource consumption?Existing Graph RAG methods heavily rely on large- scale LLMs (e.g., GPT-4o (Hurst et al., 2024)) to handle construction, retrieval, and gener- ation, hindering migration to smaller mod- els due to limited capacity. These high- intensity model calls also incur substantial resource costs and constrain deployment flexi- bility. Therefore, decoupling LLMs’ end-to- end dominance becomes essential for practical and scalable applications. • (RQ2) How to achieve robust and efficient knowledge increment for large-scale Graph RAG?GraphRAG employs a bottom-up con- struction paradigm that involves entity/rela- tionship extraction followed by community summary generation. However, this architec- ture struggles with incremental updates, re- quiring costly full-graph reconstruction. Con- sequently, it is crucial to develop an efficient incremental construction mechanism that min- imizes overhead and integrates seamlessly with existing knowledge structures. To tackle these challenges, we propose TagRAG, a tag-guided hierarchical knowledge graph retrieval-augmented generation framework, comprising Tag Knowledge Graph Construction and Tag-guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation. In the construction stage, TagRAG constructs a Tag Knowledge Graph by extracting object tag keywords and their relationships from documents. These object tags are linked to predefined root do- main tags, forming hierarchical domain tag chains. Knowledge from object tags connected to domain tags is summarized and fused for information inte- gration. During inference, domain-centric tags are retrieved to localize knowledge. The hierarchical tag chains are collected to integrate synthesized in- formation, which is then fused into