contain the most primitive and underlying information in the document. 4.1.2 Domain Tag Chain Organization The extracted object tags are scattered nodes that are difficult to manage hierarchically. Unlike the bottom-up construction of GraphRAG, we asso- ciate them with the predefined root domain tag. This gives the whole construction process a clear sense of direction and satisfies the specialized na- ture of domain knowledge graphs. Specifically, given object tags with the predefined root domain tag, we prompt LLMs to generate relationships between them and abstract them into multi-level domain tag chains: C={c i}|Vo| i=1 =LLM(V o.ˆv), Each ci contains multiple domain tags, each con- sisting of a domain name and its description. Supe- rior domain tag points to the subordinate domain tag through the relationship of "has subdomain". These domain tag chains, featuring explicit pointing relationships, inherently carry the hier- archical knowledge logic from general categories to specific subfields. To consolidate this logic into a structured framework that avoids redundant as- sociations and cyclic dependencies, we merge the chains into a directed acyclic graph (DAG) that clearly embodies the layered hierarchy of domain knowledge while ensuring intuitive traversal be- tween different levels of tags. Starting at the head of the chain, each node is mounted at its parent’s corresponding position in the DAG to ensure the integrity of the chain and the transitivity of the DAG. The detailed process of domain tag chain organization can be seen in Algorithm 1. 4.1.3 Domain-centric Knowledge Fusion In order to efficiently retrieve domain information, we deploy knowledge fusion in the graph construc- tion phase in advance, which aggregates all highly relevant information into domain tags. Specifically, there are two such categories of information: Algorithm 1:Domain Tag Chain Organiza- tion 1Input:The list of domain tag chainC, the root domain tagˆvand the existing tag knowledge