relationships from documents. These object tags are linked to predefined root do- main tags, forming hierarchical domain tag chains. Knowledge from object tags connected to domain tags is summarized and fused for information inte- gration. During inference, domain-centric tags are retrieved to localize knowledge. The hierarchical tag chains are collected to integrate synthesized in- formation, which is then fused into global answers via tag-guided retrieval-augmented generation. In summary, the contributions are as follows: • We propose TagRAG, a powerful and efficient graph-based RAG framework that enhances global knowledge representation and reason- ing in low-resource scenarios. • We introduce the architecture of domain tag chains, which improves the hierarchy of knowledge graphs and optimizes the adapt- ability of incremental insertion. • We extensively evaluate our framework on UltraDomain Agriculture, CS, Legal and Mix, demonstrating its effectiveness and efficiency for graph-based RAG. 2 Related Work Graph-based RAG (Peng et al., 2024) builds graphs characterized by high-level knowledge representa- tions and generate responses through global search. RAPTOR (Sarthi et al., 2024) introduces hierarchi- cal tree structures via clustering and summarization, shifting RAG from chunk-based retrieval to struc- tured reasoning. GraphRAG (Edge et al., 2024) further enriches this modeling with diverse graph representations, followed by HiRAG (Huang et al., 2025a) and ArchRAG (Wang et al., 2025), which utilize hierarchical community summaries. How- ever, the heavy reliance on frequent LLM calls and extensive summarization makes GraphRAG pro- hibitively expensive and inefficient for practical deployment. The subsequent work has been improved in the following two aspects: (1)Structural simplifica- tion for graph construction.LightRAG (Guo et al., 2025) integrates lightweight graphs with text indexing and dual-level retrieval for efficient, adaptive knowledge access. KET-RAG (Huang et al., 2025b) combines a sparse knowledge graph skeleton with a text-keyword bipartite graph, en- abling multi-granular retrieval without building a full-scale graph. (2)Retrieval