4.1.3 Domain-centric Knowledge Fusion In order to efficiently retrieve domain information, we deploy knowledge fusion in the graph construc- tion phase in advance, which aggregates all highly relevant information into domain tags. Specifically, there are two such categories of information: Algorithm 1:Domain Tag Chain Organiza- tion 1Input:The list of domain tag chainC, the root domain tagˆvand the existing tag knowledge graphG. 2Output: ˆG. 3DAG← {ˆv}; 4foreachc i ∈ Cdo 5forjfrom2to|c i| −1do 6p i,j ←get_node(DAG, c i,j−1); 7n i,j ←get_node(DAG, c i,j); 8ifp i,j is not Nonethen 9ifn i,j is not Nonethen 10ifn i,j /∈pi,j.childrenthen 11p i,j.add_child(ni,j); 12else 13n new ←new_node(c i,j); 14p i,j.add_child(nnew); 15 ˆG ←merge_graph(G,DAG); 16return ˆG • Domain information on chains: there are multiple domain nodes on domain tag chains that contain rich high-level domain informa- tion. They are natural providers of compre- hensive field vision. • Specialized knowledge in objects: the ex- tracted object tags contain the expertise in the original documents. They can provide accu- rate grounding knowledge. Combining these two aspects of data, we fused them into the domain-centric knowledge summary: s=LLM(Chain(v d),Nei(v d)), where vd ∈V d denotes each domain tag, Chain(·) indicates the domain tag chain to which vd belongs, and Nei(·)represents the object tags linked tov d. Embedded in the summary, each domain tag is accompanied by global knowledge related to itself. After vectorizing these summaries, we obtain a diverse and global domain-centric knowledge re- trieval library: K ← {v i, si,Emb(s i)}|Vd| i=1, where Emb(·) is the embedding function, vi and si denote a domain tag and its summary, respectively. 4 4.1.4 Knowledge Incremental Insertion The TagRAG framework has a natural advantage in knowledge incremental insertion. Instead of di- viding communities from scratch, TagRAG can di- rectly embed newly constructed domain tag chains into the existing knowledge graph. The incremental