similar graphs. While GraphRAG adds global knowledge via com- munity summaries, MiniRAG is more effective on small models through tailored retrieval. Leveraging hierarchical links, TagRAG builds well-connected graphs with high knowledge density and broad cov- erage. (a) GraphRAG (b) LightRAG (c) MiniRAG (d) TagRAG Figure 5: Visualization of knowledge graph construction with Qwen3-4B on UltraDomain Mix. B.6 Cross-domain Visual Analysis Leveraging the mapping of domain tag chains, TagRAG enables support for cross-domain sce- narios. As illustrated in Figure 6, the predefined root domain tag “ ALL DISCIPLINES ” serves as the anchor for the entire domain knowledge graph, with diverse domains (e.g., social sciences, histori- cal studies) interconnected in a hierarchical struc- ture to guide cross-domain object tags. For in- stance, the object tag “THIRTY YEARS’ WAR ” links to the root domain via the chain “ HISTORICAL STUDIES - EUROPEAN HISTORY ”, while another object tag “ BERT” maps to “ NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING”, which comes from a completely dif- ferent field. This demonstrates that TagRAG pos- sesses the capability to integrate knowledge across different domains and adapt to cross-domain appli- cation scenarios. 13 Figure 6: Demonstration of tag chains on UltraDomain Mix. B.7 Case Study To intuitively reflect the effect of TagRAG, we demonstrate a query case for the UltraDomain CS corpus in Table 11 - 14. In these cases, we can see that TagRAG is able to generate global analy- ses and responses, resulting in a complete lead in the four metrics of Comprehensiveness, Diversity, Empowerment, and Overall. C Prompts We list the prompts involved in knowledge graph construction, retrieval enhancement generation, and experiments, including question generation, evaluation, object tag keyword extraction, domain tag chain organization, domain-centric knowledge fusion and tag knowledge-fused generation. 14 Query How can we select the most important features for the model using