nism of tag chain fusion naturally has the advantage of infinite scaling. 6.5 Retriever adaption analysis To demonstrate that our performance does not solely depend on the effect of a powerful searcher, we perform a retriever adaption analysis. As shown in Table 3, retrievers of different sizes are applied to the comparison. Even with a lower performance retriever, TagRAG still has a stable advantage in all metrics. Even in comparison with GraphRAG, the poorer retriever excites the potential of TagRAG. This suggests that domain clustering in the form of tag chains based on DAG weakens the need for pre- cise entity retrieval and enhances the representation of global knowledge. 7 Conclusion We propose TagRAG, a tag-guided hierarchical knowledge graph RAG framework that addresses key limitations of existing graph-based RAG sys- tems, such as inefficient global reasoning and poor increment adaptability. By constructing domain- aware tag chains and enabling tag-guided graph re- trieval, TagRAG achieves structured, fine-grained, and scalable knowledge integration. Our design reduces reliance on large language models and sup- ports efficient construction and inference. The ex- perimental results on the UltraDomain benchmark show that TagRAG achieves a 78.36% average win- ning rate over baselines while offering significant gains in construction (14.6×) and retrieval (1.9×) efficiency compared to GraphRAG. 8 Limitations The indexing pipeline of TagRAG depends on LLM calls for object tag extraction and domain chain construction, which raises questions about cost, re- producibility, and robustness in fully automated scenarios. In addition, TagRAG cannot handle mul- timedia data such as pictures and videos, which limits its application scope. References Mariam Barry, Gaëtan Caillaut, Pierre Halftermeyer, Ra- heel Qader, Mehdi Mouayad, Dimitri Cariolaro, Fab- rice Le Deit, and Joseph Gesnouin. 2025. Graphrag: leveraging graph-based efficiency to minimize hallu- cinations in llm-driven rag for finance data. In31st International conference on Computational