a global and comprehensive answera: a← F(q,G), whereF(·)means the graph-based RAG method. 4 TagRAG As shown in Figure 2, TagRAG consists of two stage: (1) Tag Knowledge Graph Construction and (2) Tag-guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation. We extract the keywords from documents as object tags as well as their relationships. Linking them to the pre-defined root domain tag, domain tag chains are organized for knowledge accommodation. For information integration, the knowledge from object tags connected to domain tags is fused with sum- marization. In the inference stage, domain-centric tags are retrieved for knowledge localization. With the hierarchical tag chains collected, more synthe- sized information is integrated and can be fused to the global answers. 4.1 Tag Knowledge Graph Construction TagRAG aims to build a knowledge graph with rich domain relationships and efficiently aggregates global knowledge. We extract object tag keywords to collect expertise, organize domain tag chains to build a hierarchical structured system, and fuse domain-centric knowledge summaries to provide an efficient retrieval platform. 4.1.1 Object Tag Keyword Extraction In order to accurately access the knowledge in the corpus, we need to refine specialized domain doc- uments. Following the RAG paradigm, the set of documents D={d i}|D| i=1 are divided into several 3 chunks T={t i}|T| i=1 with overlaps to reach the size that LLMs can handle and maintain seman- tic coherence. Then, we request LLMs to extract domain-specific keywords with their descriptions as object tags: Vo,E o =LLM({t i}|T| i=1), which contain the most primitive and underlying information in the document. 4.1.2 Domain Tag Chain Organization The extracted object tags are scattered nodes that are difficult to manage hierarchically. Unlike the bottom-up construction of GraphRAG, we asso- ciate them with the predefined root domain tag. This gives the whole construction process a clear sense of direction and satisfies the specialized na-