the generative agent synthesizes the final response. Leveraging the retrieved data and the user query, the agent produces a structured and contextually enriched output. The response is formatted according to the user’s requirements, which may include text summaries, graphs, tables, or detailed reports. This output is then presented to the user in an easily interpretable format, completing the workflow. Generativ e Agent Response to user Polyglot Environment Generate Query Retrieve Context Variety of LLM Agents (MySqlAgent, Neo4JAgent etc.) Call LLM Agent LLM Agent Prompt User Query Execution Enviorment Schema Examples Multi Agent RAG System Figure 3: System Workflow of Multi-Agent RAG Agent 12 7 Methodology The methodology adopted in the proposed system outlines the structured process through which user queries are processed to generate contextually accurate and meaningful responses. This system ensures efficiency and scalability by dividing tasks into three primary phases: query generation, query execution, and response generation. Each phase is carefully orchestrated to leverage specialized agents and a generative agent for optimal performance. 7.1 Query Generation The first phase of the methodology involves processing the user’s query to identify the data source type and select the appropriate query generation agent. Each agent is equipped with the schema of the database and a few-shot prompt that guides it in generating a query tailored to the database’s structure. This phase ensures that the queries are syntactically and semantically aligned with the underlying data source, providing a foundation for accurate data retrieval. Algorithm 1 Query Generation Phase 1: Input: User query Q, Database schema S 2: DataSourceType ← identify_data_source(Q) 3: Assign Agent ← appropriate_query_generation_agent(DataSourceType) 4: if Agent is available then 5: GeneratedQuery ← Agent.generate_query(Q, S) 6: else 7: return No suitable agent found for query generation. 8: end if 9: Output: GeneratedQuery 7.2 Query Execution Once the query is generated, it