be advantageous for increasing AR visual search task performance and simultaneously reducing the perceived workload on users. We found that the combination of visual and audio hints can ameliorate both task performance and perceived workload when coupled with instant post-task feedback. We think that participants were mentally self-reflected and guided by the feedback regarding their searching modes during the tasks, as mentioned in qualitative results. A few reported that they improved the task performance by slightly changing the searching mode/route in the second task. Also, the "double guidance" brought by the combination of visual and audio hints positively affected participants after their self-reflection from the post-task feedback. We believe our results are promising, both encouraging further investigations in the field of using directive hints within mobile HMD setups, and incorporating an immediate opportunity for user self reflection and evaluation. The noticeable decrease of TCT and the cognitive task workload was a confirmation of our hypotheses. Beyond the fundamental results obtained, the research implication of our study has high generalizability and convertibility. We aimed to benefit the general AR searching specialization by selecting the visual book- searching task since all the essential elements needed for visual searching were contained in this use case. 6.2 Limitations We acknowledge that our study has some limitations. First, we designed two visual book-searching tasks to be performed using two bookcases that contained different books, eliminating memory as a factor in the second task. Second, The books themselves can serve as the variable elements. The thickness and order of the books might alter the participants’ search speeds and workload. The books we chose were generally thick ones, and the participants’ searches might have been sped up to some extent because the title displayed on the spine would be larger. Also, the books’ positioning may affect participants’