DeBiasMe: De-biasing Human-AI Interactions with Metacognitive AIED (AI in Education) Interventions CHAEYEON LIM, UCL Interaction Centre, UK While generative artificial intelligence (Gen AI) increasingly transforms academic environments, a critical gap exists in understand- ing and mitigating human biases in AI interactions, such as anchoring and confirmation bias. This position paper advocates for metacognitive AI literacy interventions to help university students critically engage with AI and address biases across the Human-AI interaction workflows. The paper presents the importance of considering (1) metacognitive support with deliberate friction focusing on human bias; (2) bi-directional Human-AI interaction intervention addressing both input formulation and output interpretation; and (3) adaptive scaffolding that responds to diverse user engagement patterns. These frameworks are illustrated through ongoing work on "DeBiasMe, " AIED (AI in Education) interventions designed to enhance awareness of cognitive biases while empowering user agency in AI interactions. The paper invites multiple stakeholders to engage in discussions on design and evaluation methods for scaffolding mechanisms, bias visualization, and analysis frameworks. This position contributes to the emerging field of AI-augmented learning by emphasizing the critical role of metacognition in helping students navigate the complex interaction between human, statistical, and systemic biases in AI use while highlighting how cognitive adaptation to AI systems must be explicitly integrated into comprehensive AI literacy frameworks. CCS Concepts: • Human-centered computing → User centered design ; HCI design and evaluation methods ; • Social and professional topics → Computing literacy; •Computing methodologies → Artificial intelligence; •Applied computing → Education. Additional Key Words and Phrases: Human-AI Interaction, Cognitive Biases, Metacognition, AI Literacy, Educational Technology, Deliberate Friction ACM Reference Format: Chaeyeon Lim. 2025. DeBiasMe: De-biasing Human-AI Interactions with Metacognitive AIED (AI in Education) Interventions. In Proceedings of Workshop: AI Augmented Reasoning (CHI ’25). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 12 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn. nnnnnnn 1 Introduction Generative