modera- tion API / Embedded AI system designers, CS learners thinking over automation, helping users adjust their agency and trust levels [ 12] through strategic interventions [20, 47]. These friction points serve as metacognitive triggers and knowledge scaffolding, reducing susceptibility to and amplification between cognitive and AI biases. 3.2 Bi-Directional human-AI collaboration Such design intervention can be effectively intergrated when users are perceived as active participants in AI interaction and decision-making processes [50]. Adopting this framework in AI literacy allows reimagining the Human-in-the-Loop as a bi-directional process where humans can intervene in both input and output stages for close human-AI collaboration [15]. From this view, algorithmic and systemic biases are not imposed on users in a top-down manner, but end-users can address them with bias recognition and mitigation efforts. By empowering end-users with enhanced interpretability and transparency [22], this approach also contributes to both human-centered adoption of AI to human as well as human adaptation to AI systems [49]. 4 Illustrative Case: DeBiasMe To demonstrate the application of the above frameworks, tthis paper presents DeBiasMe, a metacognitive AI literacy tool designed to enhance awareness of human and AI biases in both the input and output stages of human-AI collaboration (See Fig. 2). 4.1 Identifying metacognitive support needs Initial mixed-methods user research with university students using surveys and interviews identified three metacognitive support needs, informing the design to meet the following learner requirements: (1) bias awareness (understanding Manuscript submitted to ACM DeBiasMe: De-biasing Human-AI Interactions with Metacognitive AIED (AI in Education) Interventions 5 Fig. 2. Bidirectional AI Literacy Intervention in Human-AI Collaborative Framework for Metacognitive Support how human biases affect prompt formulation); (2) AI understanding (comprehending AI’s limitations and capabilities); and (3) critical thinking (developing self-awareness of reasoning processes during AI interactions). 4.2 Frictional design for metacognitive support Based on identified