Artificial intelligence; •Applied computing → Education. Additional Key Words and Phrases: Human-AI Interaction, Cognitive Biases, Metacognition, AI Literacy, Educational Technology, Deliberate Friction ACM Reference Format: Chaeyeon Lim. 2025. DeBiasMe: De-biasing Human-AI Interactions with Metacognitive AIED (AI in Education) Interventions. In Proceedings of Workshop: AI Augmented Reasoning (CHI ’25). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 12 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn. nnnnnnn 1 Introduction Generative artificial intelligence (Gen AI) tools, particularly text generators with LLMs, are rapidly transforming academic environments not just as productivity aids but as potential catalysts or barriers to critical thinking [25]. The adoption of these tools for automation in various cognitive tasks (e.g., summarization, argument development, and research synthesis) rather than for augmentation poses cognitive risks in education by promoting over-reliance on AI [58], reinforcing existing beliefs [ 18], and offloading higher-order thinking skills to AI systems [ 3, 31]. Despite This paper was presented at the 2025 ACM Workshop on Human-AI Interaction for Augmented Reasoning (AIREASONING-2025-01). This is the authors’ version for arXiv. Author’s Contact Information: Chaeyeon Lim, chaeyeon.lim.24@ucl.ac.uk, UCL Interaction Centre, London, UK. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. © 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. Manuscript submitted to ACM Manuscript submitted to ACM 1 arXiv:2504.16770v1 [cs.HC] 23 Apr 2025 2 Chaeyeon Lim increasing AI