systems will be crucial to clearly distinguish between different levels of confidence in bias assessments. Rather than presenting all bias detections with equal certainty, the system can communicate confidence levels based on the strength of evidence and consensus across detection methods. Manuscript submitted to ACM DeBiasMe: De-biasing Human-AI Interactions with Metacognitive AIED (AI in Education) Interventions 9 6 Discussion This position paper contributes to the emerging field of AI-augmented reasoning by emphasizing the critical role of metacognition in human-AI collaboration and the focus on human bias. There are several limitations that needs to be acknowledged to further develop this tool in line with the responsible innovation framework, which considers the potential societal impacts of emerging technology [52, 54]. 6.0.1 Limitations. While this tool focused on addressing individual bias guided by self-regulation theory [5], biases in collaborative contexts in shared learning environments can be further examined. Further, this tool adopted an established bias taxonomy, but this can be further explored with co-designing sessions employing community engagement and creative approaches exploring bias-related themes and visualizations, data representation and data politics. Finally, while this tool focused on LLMs, future development on different types of biases, for example with image generation, is worth exploring with multimodal AI. 6.0.2 AI Literacy for epistemic ethics and civic imagination. AI literacy requires the assessment of complex affective, behavioral, cognitive, and ethical dimensions [ 16]. DeBiasMe provides both theoretical and technical solutions by prompting students to evaluate whether AI assistance is necessary for a given task, encouraging a more reflective approach to AI use. This paradigm shifts away from treating AI as an automatic solution to problems, instead positioning it as a strategic cognitive aid that should be deployed selectively and intentionally. This approach fosters adaptive, empathetic leadership in an era of AI sovereignty, where educational institutions and