and Mitigation Approaches Developing quantitative metrics for bias detection and mitigation of the tool requires further technical considerations to develop a multi-dimensional bias index framework for bias detection and mitigation. 5.3.1 Bias measurement (prevalence, intensity, and mitigation). Mitigation of bias prevalence and intensity can be further assessed in terms of analysis accuracy and educational relevance. The success rate of bias mitigation strategies can be measured through changes in subsequent interactions after bias feedback. These metrics can be calculated both at the individual level and aggregated across user populations to identify common patterns and the effectiveness of the tool interventions from technical perspectives. This can further benefit from regular external auditing processes by experts in education and AI safety to assess both system performance and educational quality. 5.3.2 Methodological Integrity of Bias Analysis. A fundamental challenge in developing an AI literacy tool integrating bias detection functionality in AI is ensuring the methodological integrity of the detection system itself. This presents a multi-layered challenge. While AI biases reflect incompleteness of training data, biases in AI systems can also be deliberate for deception [ 38]. To address this, several safeguard methods can be considered. The tool can adopt a multi-model consensus approach that compares bias assessments from different AI systems with diverse training methodologies [9]. By identifying areas of agreement and disagreement between these systems, the tool can triangulate more reliable bias assessments while highlighting areas of uncertainty. Further, implementing transparent bias analysis systems will be crucial to clearly distinguish between different levels of confidence in bias assessments. Rather than presenting all bias detections with equal certainty, the system can communicate confidence levels based on the strength of evidence and consensus across detection methods. Manuscript submitted to ACM DeBiasMe: De-biasing Human-AI Interactions with Metacognitive AIED (AI in Education) Interventions 9 6 Discussion This