than all at once. This approach would allow users to first identify bias presence, then explore bias types, and finally examine implications and mitigation strategies, reducing cognitive load while constructing a mental model of the bias in human-AI interaction [13]. The role of progressive disclosure can also be further explored in terms of features enabling the adjustment of visibility of bias severity and implications for individual users. When users try to be more sensitive to certain types of biases (e.g., confirmation), allowing personalized use becomes important. However, given that this type of visualization can also facilitate uncertainty and anchoring bias, different types of visualization need to be compared [39] . 5.2.3 Adaptive Visualization. Future tools need to support learners with different expertise levels, giving control in their learning pathways [ 6]. This can be done by implementing adaptive visualization complexity, allowing users to adjust the level of detail based on their comfort with the system and the specific requirements of their tasks. A promising direction for development involves implementing task-specific visualization modes tailored to different educational contexts. For example, research-focused visualizations might emphasize potential confirmation biases in source selection and interpretation, while creative writing-focused visualizations might highlight framing biases and Manuscript submitted to ACM 8 Chaeyeon Lim limitations in perspectives. This contextual adaptation would enhance the tool’s relevance across various academic activities and learners. Fig. 4. Developing bias visualization: A structured Comparison of Biased and Debiased Alternatives 5.3 Bias Analysis and Mitigation Approaches Developing quantitative metrics for bias detection and mitigation of the tool requires further technical considerations to develop a multi-dimensional bias index framework for bias detection and mitigation. 5.3.1 Bias measurement (prevalence, intensity, and mitigation). Mitigation of bias prevalence and intensity can be further assessed in terms of analysis accuracy and educational relevance. The success rate of bias