interacting with AI tools [51]. By fostering critical engagement and reflection, such tools can transform students from passive AI consumers to active collaborators with AI systems [30]. To illustrate these arguments, this paper presents work-in-progress project DeBiasMe, a metacognitive AIED (AI in Education) literacy intervention for human and AI bias mitigation. This will be extended by discussing ongoing research and development directions and their educational and social implications. This position paper invites educators, researchers, designers, AI developers, and students to join in DeBiasMe’s exploration of the following questions (See Table 1) to advance AI literacy approaches that empower end-users in AI-augmented learning environments. Manuscript submitted to ACM DeBiasMe: De-biasing Human-AI Interactions with Metacognitive AIED (AI in Education) Interventions 3 Table 1. Research questions Focused Area Question Deliberate Friction for Metacogni- tive Support How can strategic integration of friction points in the human-AI workflow support critical thinking and metacognitive skills? Bias Interaction Patterns How to address human bias at both the input (prompt formulation) and output stages (interpretation of AI responses) to help students navigate the complex interaction of human, systemic, and statistical biases? Individual factors How to design scaffolding mechanism that adapts to individual factors involved in human-AI interaction? 2 Related Works 2.1 Technical gap: human bias in AI literacy tools Conventional Human-in-the-Loop interventions prioritize refining AI models with less attention to human involvement in both input and output stages of the interaction [21]. As a result, existing AI literacy tools predominantly focus on algorithmic and systemic bias, with a lack of AI literacy interventions that address human biases (See Table 2). Further, existing tools are target domain-specific use cases or users with technical expertise, creating accessibility barriers that widen the digital divide and leave broader populations without effective means to develop critical AI competencies [1]. 2.2 Theoretical gap: the