assessing both technical effectiveness and educational effectiveness with usability heuristics, think-aloud studies, and expert reviews [35, 56], the main interventions demon- strated potential as metacognitive AI literacy tools by making implicit human and AI biases explicit and actionable, helping students develop awareness of their own thinking patterns when interacting with AI. This addresses two main Manuscript submitted to ACM 6 Chaeyeon Lim Fig. 3. Interactive prototype and frictional design elements (The previous UI has been fully integrated with AI by using GPT-4 on Azure) components of metacognitive skills: metacognitive knowledge (enhanced awareness of biases and thought processes) and metacognitive regulation (actively monitoring and adjusting) for critical engagement with AI tools [31]. 4.2.3 Bias detection approach. To provide real-time bias detection and visualization within the user’s AI tool envi- ronment, the current bias detection approach uses AI to analyze text for potential biases against a hierarchical bias taxonomy established with main risks and vulnerabilities of human and AI system biases [45]. Current development is further refining bias detection by incorporating both hierarchical classification of bias types and analysis of human-AI bias relationships. 5 Developing AI Literacy Interventions for Human Bias Following sections will outline ongoing development of the tool for developing AI literacy tools for human bias detection and mitigation: (1) enhancing scaffolding mechanisms for diverse users, (2) refining bias visualization techniques that effectively represent the relationship between different types of biases, and (3) developing comprehensive bias measurement frameworks for evidence-based evaluation across multiple bias dimensions. 5.1 Scaffolding mechanisms Scaffolding mechanisms of the tool can be further developed by supporting diverse engagement patterns while addressing user trust. 5.1.1 AI use informed by bias implications. Tools can help students understand the broader implications of different types of biases in academic contexts. For example, anchoring bias identification is particularly relevant when addressing the