DeBiasMe: De-biasing Human-AI Interactions with Metacognitive AIED (AI in Education) Interventions 5 Fig. 2. Bidirectional AI Literacy Intervention in Human-AI Collaborative Framework for Metacognitive Support how human biases affect prompt formulation); (2) AI understanding (comprehending AI’s limitations and capabilities); and (3) critical thinking (developing self-awareness of reasoning processes during AI interactions). 4.2 Frictional design for metacognitive support Based on identified metacognitive needs, design solution introduces deliberate frictions at input and output stages of the human-AI workflow through an interface that integrates two core interventions (See Fig. 3): 4.2.1 Prompt Refinement Tool. Before submitting prompts to an AI system, students receive real-time feedback highlighting potential biases and suggesting alternative phrasings. This input-stage intervention helps students identify and mitigate cognitive biases before AI interaction, such as anchoring bias in how questions are framed. When activated, the tool allows users to detect bias, reflect on their implications, and apply relevant changes for prompting. 4.2.2 Bias Visualization Map. After receiving an AI-generated response, users are presented with an interactive bias diagram highlighting potential biases in AI-generated outputs. This intervention visually maps different types of biases and their relationships by connecting information circles to the relevant text segments. By allowing users to navigate explanations of the identified bias types (human, systematic, statistical, and computational), their potential impact, and status ("addressed in prompt" and "detected in response"), the tool makes abstract bias concepts concrete and actionable. Through the evaluation of an earlier version of the prototype, assessing both technical effectiveness and educational effectiveness with usability heuristics, think-aloud studies, and expert reviews [35, 56], the main interventions demon- strated potential as metacognitive AI literacy tools by making implicit human and AI biases explicit and actionable, helping students develop awareness of their own thinking patterns when interacting with AI. This addresses two main Manuscript submitted to ACM 6