users may resist or reject the tool’s feedback [17]. When there is alignment between user and system biases, identified or flagged biases from the tool can trigger defensive reactions [ 8] . While the tool is designed as an exploratory tool, determining whether certain features require compulsory engagement depends on educational needs and engagement patterns across users with varying levels of trust and agency. 5.2 Bias Visualization Different bias visualization approaches are explored to further enhance the accessibility of information for users across different levels of technical expertise. 5.2.1 First-hand tool for qualitative assessments. Our working-in-progress visualization shows different bias relationship types ("reinforced" or "reduced/persistent") based on 1) structured comparison of biased and debiased alternatives [26] and 2) identified connections between human and AI biases (See Fig. 4). This approach can facilitate qualitative assessment of interactions between human, statistical, and systemic biases within and across different AI models, fostering responsible AI use [46]. For example, students can be made aware that their confirmation bias could lead them to frame prompts in ways that exploit existing cultural biases in AI training data, resulting in outputs that further reinforce their pre-existing beliefs. In other cases, students are guided to view one AI model as one among multiple options, selecting it based on an explicit assessment of its relevance and reliability. 5.2.2 Progressive Visualization. Visualizations can be integrated into different steps of the user’s journey when visual- ization elements are introduced progressively rather than all at once. This approach would allow users to first identify bias presence, then explore bias types, and finally examine implications and mitigation strategies, reducing cognitive load while constructing a mental model of the bias in human-AI interaction [13]. The role of progressive disclosure can also be further explored in terms of features enabling the adjustment of visibility of