Retrieval- Augmented Generation (RAG) is a popular tech- nical framework that incorporates external knowl- edge sources to tackle knowledge-intensive prob- lems (Lewis et al., 2020). By combining a non- parametric retrieval module with the main model, RAG effectively alleviates hallucination issues in large models (Yao et al., 2022; Bang et al., 2023). Moreover, this retrieval-and-generation mechanism ∗These authors contributed equally to this work. † Corresponding author: tian wenhong@uestc.edu.cn Figure 1: Framework of Deep Supervised Hashing with Pairwise Similarity. The framework computes similarity-preserving loss by aligning pairwise rela- tionships between hash codes and their corresponding ground truth, which provide a novel perspective for op- timizing RAG efficiency. expands the capabilities of LLMs in few- or zero- shot settings (Brown et al., 2020; Chowdhery et al., 2023), which is now widely considered a standard solution for addressing factual shortcomings in tra- ditional LLMs (Ma et al., 2023). Behind the effectiveness of RAG, the huge scale of the knowledge bases is to ensure the quality and professionalism of the output (Izacard et al., 2023). The remarkable effectiveness of RAG systems is fundamentally rooted in the substantial scale of the knowledge bases, which critically ensures out- put quality and domain expertise. Concurrently, the rapid expansion of both model architectures and knowledge data has established the continu- ous scaling of RAG knowledge bases (Chen et al., 2021). Consequently, achieving optimal efficiency- performance coordination in knowledge base re- trieval has emerged as a paramount concern in mod- ern RAG system design. Current research has dedicated significant ef- forts to optimize the retrieval process in RAG sys- tems. Within them, Several approaches focus on multi-round retrieval iterations to obtain more com- prehensive and higher-quality content (Yao et al., 2023). Others employ task-specific or domain- adapted model fine-tuning to enhance performance in targeted scenarios. Alternative strategies involve implementing