utterance selection one can use the reference utterance as the default target and then match the concatenation of the conversa- tion history and the generated utterance with the provided utterance candidates. For article search, the default target could be (part of) the ground-truth article itself. Other generation targets are more task- speciﬁc and can be designed as long as they can be fetched from the latent knowledge inside PLMs and are helpful for further text retrieval (matching). Note that by augmenting (expanding) the queries with heuristically discovered relevant contexts ex- tracted from PLMs instead of reformulating them, GAR bypasses the need for external supervision to form the original-reformulated query pairs. Acknowledgments We thank Vladimir Karpukhin, Sewon Min, Gau- tier Izacard, Wenda Qiu, Revanth Reddy, and Hao Cheng for helpful discussions. We thank the anony- mous reviewers for valuable comments. References Nasreen Abdul-Jaleel, James Allan, W Bruce Croft, Fernando Diaz, Leah Larkey, Xiaoyan Li, Mark D Smucker, and Courtney Wade. 2004. Umass at trec 2004: Novelty and hard. Computer Science Depart- ment Faculty Publication Series, page 189. Akari Asai, Kazuma Hashimoto, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Richard Socher, and Caiming Xiong. 2019. Learn- ing to retrieve reasoning paths over wikipedia graph for question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.10470. Iz Beltagy, Matthew E Peters, and Arman Cohan. 2020. Longformer: The long-document transformer. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.05150. Tom B Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.14165. Danqi Chen, Adam Fisch, Jason Weston, and Antoine Bordes. 2017. Reading Wikipedia to answer open- domain questions. In Proceedings of the 55th An- nual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 1870– 1879, Vancouver, Canada. Association for Computa- tional Linguistics. Gordon V Cormack,