vision-language tasks. Our code is released at https://github.com/SnowNation101/Nyx CCS Concepts •Information systems → Web search engines;Multimedia and multimodal retrieval;Web mining;Question answering; Retrieval models and ranking. Keywords Multimodal Retrieval-Augmented Generation, Vision-Language Model, Multimodal Embedding, Contrastive Learning Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. WWW ’26, Dubai, UAE ©2026 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/2018/06 https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX T ext Image She is crowned with an orb of da-rkness and trails a veil ofnocturnal mists. The figure is labelled NUKS on the vase. Image-T extPairInterleavedImage-T ext In Greekmyth-ology, Nyx is the goddess and personification of the night… “Mixed-Modal” Figure 1: An illustration of the input patterns of “mixed- modal” content in the URAG scenario. 1 Introduction Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities in text comprehension and generation [8, 15, 37, 38, 48]. To extend their capabilities to multimodal understanding, vision-language models (VLMs) incorporate visual encoders to process text and image inputs [ 1, 57]. However, like LLMs, VLMs often struggle with queries needing up-to-date or external knowledge. Retrieval- Augmented Generation (RAG) addresses this by retrieving doc- uments from an external corpus to complement internal knowl- edge [10, 14, 31]. Building on this, Multimodal RAG (MRAG) extends the paradigm to settings where both queries and documents may contain