dynamic RAG frame- works in Table 1. 4.4 Selected LLMs To validate the effectiveness of DRAGIN and other RAG baselines, we conducted experiments with the following LLMs: • LLaMA-2-Chat (Touvron et al., 2023b). LLaMA2 is a collection of pre-trained and fine- tuned LLMs. This series includes fine-tuned LLMs, known as Llama2-Chat, specifically de- signed for optimal performance in dialogue- based applications. We choose LLaMA-2-Chat- 7B and LLaMA-2-Chat-13B. • Vicuna-13B-v1.5 (Chiang et al., 2023) is a col- lection of open-source chatbots fine-tuned from LLaMA using user-shared conversations gath- ered from ShareGPT. We have selected the latest versions of Vicuna, namely Vicuna-13B-v1.5. 4.5 Implementation Details Hyperparameter: The hyperparameters are all presented in Appendix E. Retriever: We adopt BM25 as our retrieval model based on findings from (Ram et al., 2023), which demonstrated its superior performance in Retrieval- Augmented Generation, even outperforming some dense retrieval models. We also explored the im- pact of replacing BM25 with a SOTA dense re- trieval method SGPT (Muennighoff, 2022), which is detailed in Section 5.5. Stopwords: For the identification of stop- words within the RIND module, we utilized the en_core_web_sm language model from the Spacy library, a tool recognized for its effectiveness and efficiency in Natural Language Processing tasks as evidenced by previous research (Shelar et al., 2020). External Knowledge Corpus: We adopt Wikipedia as our external knowledge corpus. Each article are segmented into 100-token passages. LLM Configuration: For the selected LLMs, we directly download model parameters from the offi- cial Hugging Face repositories for each model, and use the code provided by Hugging Face to conduct text generation. For the generation configuration, we have chosen greedy decoding as the decoding strategy for LLM inference to ensure the repro- ducibility of our experimental results. However, for practical applications, we recommend using the of- ficial default generation configuration