Advancing Similarity Search with GenAI: A Retrieval Augmented Generation Approach Jean Bertin Email: jean.bertin@mines-paris.org This article introduces an innovative Retrieval Augmented Generation approach to similarity search. The proposed method uses a generative model to capture nuancedsemanticinformationandretrievesimilarityscoresbasedonadvancedcontext understanding. The study focuses on the BIOSSES dataset containing 100 pairs of sentences extracted from the biomedical domain, and introduces similarity search correlation results that outperform those previously attained on this dataset. Through an in-depth analysis of the model sensitivity, the research identifies optimal conditions leading to the highest similarity search accuracy: the results reveals high Pearson correlation scores, reaching specifically 0.905 at a temperature of 0.5 and a sample size of 20 examples provided in the prompt. The findings underscore the potential of generative models for semantic information retrieval and emphasize a promising research direction to similarity search. Categories and subject descriptors: informatics; data science Keywords: generative AI; similarity search 1. INTRODUCTION Similarity search is today widely employed across various applications, including document and image retrieval, product recommendation, sequencing search in bioinformatics or anomaly detection in cyber security. In general terms, similarity search technic consist in identifying and retrieving elements similar to a specific query within a data collection, using a metric measure to evaluate the proximity between those elements. The firstsimilaritysearchmethodsweredevelopedinthe1970s using inverted lists and have since significantly evolved. Original string-based methods, such asLevenhstein, Q- gram, Cosine, Jaccard work directly with the characters as a basis for the similarity metric. Jaccard similarity assessesforinstancetheratiobetweentheintersectionand union of two elements, whileQ-gram divides a character sequence into fixed-length substrings to analyze their presence and frequency. In specific cases, these methods might be useful for comparing sequences of characters but encounter limitations when it comes to grasping the overall meaning of a sentence or paragraph. The advent of vector databases marks a significant advance in representing data