assessesforinstancetheratiobetweentheintersectionand union of two elements, whileQ-gram divides a character sequence into fixed-length substrings to analyze their presence and frequency. In specific cases, these methods might be useful for comparing sequences of characters but encounter limitations when it comes to grasping the overall meaning of a sentence or paragraph. The advent of vector databases marks a significant advance in representing data in the form of numerical vectors, enabling similarity search based on the meaning of elements rather than on exact matches. The key difference actually lies in data representation: string- based methods directly analyze characters, while vector- based methods transform data into continuous vectors, capturing semantic information. Vector-based approaches are now widely employed, and a number of frameworks likeSent2Vec,FAISS, orfastTextareallow to create vector embeddings for sentences, capturing their meaning in a high-dimensional space. Kathrin Blagec et al., 2019 investigated different similarity search techniques, including both string-based methods like Jaccard or Q-gram, and vector embedding methods, both supervised and unsupervised, combining multiple approaches. They surpassed previous similarity results on the BIOSSES dataset (Sogancıoglu et al., 2017) with a supervised combination of several methods J. Bertin, 2024 arXiv:2501.04006v1 [cs.IR] 3 Dec 2024 2 Adv ancing Similarity Search with GenAI (Jaccard, Q-gram, sent2vec, Paragraph vector PV-DM, skip-thoughts, andfastText). This article introduces an innovative similarity search approach through the utilization of a generative model to retrieve the distances between pairs of sentences. The article explore in fact how a Retrieval Augmented Generation method (allowing to combine information retrieval with generative language modeling) can be used to create more accurate response in the context of similarity search. It should be noted that the presented results serve more as a starting point than an absolute performance assessment of this method, as not all generative models and prompt configurations could be tested : alongside the results, which are