ancing Similarity Search with GenAI difference at each iteration concerning the user prompt being updated with a new sentence pairs at each iteration. A formalism test is also implemented to ensure that all responses retrieved by the model corresponds to the expected output : the iteration will simply move on to the next sentence pairs if the formatting conditions of the response are respected. A schematic diagram of the iteration purpose is represented below: Figure 1. Conversational chain iteration on pairs of sentences As illustrated in Figure 1, the calculation of thePearson correlation specified in paragraph 2.2 occurs at the end of the iteration loop, i.e. when all sentence pairs from the test dataset have been passed through, and the generative model has provided a similarity score for each of them. 3. RESULTS The first analysis focuses on the sensitivity of the results to the temperature parameter, whereas the second part analyzes the model’s sensitivity to the number of examples given to the system prompt. 3.1. Sensibility to temperature parameter For this study, an iteration is implemented to test different temperature values and to calculate the corresponding similarity score obtained on each line of the test dataset. ThePearson coefficientis calculated for each temperature value from 0 to 1 with an step of 0.1, and the associated graph is plotted (see figure 2). The highestPearson coefficientis equal to0.905 and is obtained for atemperature value of 0.5. Thistemperature value introduces some diversity into the predictions, which is beneficial for similarity calculations to take into account minor variations between sentences. Thistemperature of 0.5alsogivethemodelsomeflexibilitytotakeintoaccount the language nuances and the implicit meanings that might be related to certain phrasing constructs. The risk to use high temperature values, however, concerns the risk of overstepping the formalism of Figure 2. Evolution of similarity results with temperature the