Expressivity-aware Music Performance Retrieval using Mid-level Perceptual Features and Emotion Word Embeddings Shreyan Chowdhury Institute of Computational Perception Johannes Kepler University Linz, Austria shreyan0311@gmail.com Gerhard Widmer Institute of Computational Perception Johannes Kepler University Linz, Austria gerhard.widmer@jku.at ABSTRACT This paper explores a specific sub-task of cross-modal music re- trieval. We consider the delicate task of retrieving a performance or rendition of a musical piece based on a description of its style, ex- pressive character, or emotion from a set of different performances of the same piece. We observe that a general purpose cross-modal system trained to learn a common text-audio embedding space does not yield optimal results for this task. By introducing two changes – one each to the text encoder and the audio encoder – we demonstrate improved performance on a dataset of piano perfor- mances and associated free-text descriptions. On the text side, we use emotion-enriched word embeddings (EWE) and on the audio side, we extract mid-level perceptual features instead of generic au- dio embeddings. Our results highlight the effectiveness of mid-level perceptual features learnt from music and emotion enriched word embeddings learnt from emotion-labelled text in capturing musical expression in a cross-modal setting. Additionally, our interpretable mid-level features provide a route for introducing explainability in the retrieval and downstream recommendation processes. ACM Reference Format: Shreyan Chowdhury and Gerhard Widmer. 2023. Expressivity-aware Music Performance Retrieval using Mid-level Perceptual Features and Emotion Word Embeddings. InForum for Information Retrieval Evaluation (FIRE 2023), December 15–18, 2023, Panjim, India. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 5 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3632754.3632761 1 INTRODUCTION Music performance involves an interplay between a composer, a performer, and a listener. The performer imbues a composition with their own expression and style, and the listener perceives the emotion or mood being communicated through the music by the composer and the performer [19].