MTR model also gets the Grimaud right, but returns Sviatoslav Richter in response to "mechanical, boring, beginner"). The mid-level feature profiles predicted from these text queries by our model (i.e., its ‘translation’ Expressivity-aware Music Performance Retrieval FIRE 2023, December 15–18, 2023, Panjim, India of free text into mid-level feature space) explain its decisions quite well and conform both to our intuition, and to what we hear in the recordings. In particular, Grimaud is described as having high "melodiousness" and very low "articulation" whereas the MIDI ren- dering is characterised by rather neutral values throughout, and negative rather than positive "melodiousness". Such high-level mu- sical descriptions could be useful as explanations in a real music search and recommendation application. 6 CONCLUSION We present an experimental demonstration showing that mid-level perceptual features and emotion enriched text embeddings are use- ful in capturing some of the expressive musical character in audio recordings and relating them to descriptive text. We see significant improvements in all three metrics (particularly, the number of times the correct performance was retrieved almost doubled) and we note the effect of modifying both the audio and the text encoders. While this is not a large-scale study, our results point towards the impor- tance of perceptually-driven features and emotion-aware models in music retrieval and consequently in music recommendation. Fea- tures that are interpretable and musically meaningful are also cru- cial for explainability and provide a route for training downstream interpretable models of music retrieval and recommendation. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This research was supported by the European Research Council (ERC) under the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and inno- vation programme, grant agreements No 670035 (“Con Espressione") and 101019375 (“Whither Music?"). REFERENCES [1] 2023. Apple Music Classical. https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT213415 [2] Andrea Agostinelli, Timo I. Denk, Zalán Borsos, Jesse Engel, Mauro Verzetti, An- toine Caillon, Qingqing