CogPlanner: Unveiling the Potential of Agentic Multimodal Retrieval Augmented Generation with Planning Xiaohan Yu∗ Huawei Cloud BU Beijing, China yuxiaohan5@huawei.com Zhihan Yang∗ Huawei Cloud BU Beijing, China yangzhihan4@huawei.com Chong Chen† Huawei Cloud BU Beijing, China chenchong55@huawei.com Abstract Multimodal Retrieval Augmented Generation (MRAG) systems have shown promise in enhancing the generation capabilities of multi- modal large language models (MLLMs). However, existing MRAG frameworks primarily adhere to rigid, single-step retrieval strate- gies that fail to address real-world challenges of information acqui- sition and query reformulation. In this work, we introduce the task of Multimodal Retrieval Augmented Generation Planning (MRAG Planning) that aims at effective information seeking and integra- tion while minimizing computational overhead. Specifically, we propose CogPlanner, an agentic plug-and-play framework inspired by human cognitive processes, which iteratively determines query reformulation and retrieval strategies to generate accurate and contextually relevant responses. CogPlanner supports parallel and sequential modeling paradigms. Furthermore, we introduce Cog- Bench, a new benchmark designed to rigorously evaluate the MRAG Planning task and facilitate lightweight CogPlanner integration with resource-efficient MLLMs, such as Qwen2-VL-7B-Cog. Experi- mental results demonstrate that CogPlanner significantly outper- forms existing MRAG baselines, offering improvements in both accuracy and efficiency with minimal additional computational costs. CCS Concepts •Computing methodologies → Natural language generation; •Information systems → Language models;Question answer- ing. Keywords Multimodal Retrieval Augmented Retrieval, Query Planning, Multi- modal Large Language Model, Visual Question Answering ACM Reference Format: Xiaohan Yu∗, Zhihan Yang∗, and Chong Chen†. 2025. CogPlanner: Unveiling the Potential of Agentic Multimodal Retrieval Augmented Generation with Planning . InProceedings of Make sure to enter the correct conference title from your rights confirmation emai (SIGIR-AP 2025).ACM, New York, NY, USA, 10 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3767695.3769486 Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that