two respective games. Subsequent web searches are con- ducted to retrieve sales data and generate the final response. This example underscores the crucial need for dynamic planning proce- dures in MRAG systems where both order and selection of retrieval methods, and query reformulation are determined tailored to the specific characteristics of the multimodal query. To address the challenges of MRAG Planning, we propose a novel framework, CogPlanner 1, inspired by human cognitive processes. Just as humans synthesize and gather multimodal information to address complex queries, adapting their reasoning based on prior knowledge, CogPlanner emulates this behavior through a central- ized planning expert that dynamically determines a planning proce- dure in coordination with downstream MLLMs. CogPlanner oper- ates through two core operations: query reformulation and retrieval action selection. Query reformulation involves breaking down a complex query into related sub-queries or refining the queries. The retrieval strategy, in turn, encompasses image search, text search, or none. When sufficient information is gathered, the framework refrains from further retrieval, culminating in the generation of a final response. This iterative procedure reflects an adaptive chain of actions tailored to the specific needs of each multimodal query. For instance, the optimal planning strategy in Figure 1 follows(Query Refinement, Image Search) → (Query Decomposition, Text Search). CogPlanner supports two distinct modeling approaches: parallel and sequential modeling. Each differs in the order of the query reformulation and retrieval action selection. In conjunction with the introduction of the CogPlanner frame- work, we present CogBench, a comprehensive dataset tailored to the MRAG Planning task. CogBench consists of over 5,000 data samples, with a high-quality test set of 401 samples. In addition to its essential role in evaluation, the development of CogBench facilitates the design of specialized fine-tuning strategies aimed at bolstering the decision-making capabilities of smaller, resource- efficient MLLMs. By