UnitedHealthcare's CEO? Image Search: Text Search: Luigi Mangione has been charged with second-degree murder in the killing of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson… Text Search: Mangione was arrested while eating breakfast at an Altoona McDonald‘s after a customer noticed that he looked like the person in surveillance photos that police were circulating of Thompson’s killer. Dec 24, 2024… Query Reformulation Retrieval Action SelectionPlanning Expert Parallel ModelingSequential Modeling Iteration 1 Iteration 2 Iteration 3 Figure 2: The overall framework of CogPlanner. • Fixed visual retrieval, which prioritizes visual information, lever- aging visual queries to retrieve relevant images and their associ- ated captions. The MLLM then integrates both the original user query and the augmented retrieved images to produce the final answer. While these fixed workflows have been effective within certain domains, they exhibit limited flexibility. The rigid, modality-specific structure hinders their ability to adapt to other contexts, or the non-search scenario, where fixed search may bring extra noise. It undermines their potential for broader applicability in dynamic, real-world scenarios. 4.2 CogPlanner We propose CogPlanner, a flexible, plug-and-play framework that mirrors the human cognitive processes when handling complex multimodal queries. Our approach is inspired by the observation that humans demonstrate both adaptability and efficiency in ac- quiring and integrating multimodal information. When confronted with such queries, individuals instinctively engage in a structured, multi-step process that involves continuous assessment of informa- tion gaps, determination of appropriate retrieval strategies for the missing knowledge, and decomposition and refinement of complex queries into manageable sub-components. Crucially, this process is inherently adaptive - guided by the individual’s prior knowledge and cognitive capabilities, with the goal of converging toward a state of conceptual clarity and informational completeness. CogPlanner operationalizes this cognitive architecture through an iterative decision-making framework. It dynamically orches- trates a chain of decisions for each query, optimizing