planning process of CogPlanner is particularly beneficial in scenarios that require the retrieval of in- formation from multiple sources and involve multi-step reasoning to formulate a complete and accurate response. 6.2.2 Query Reformulation Performance.As illustrated in Table 3, we evaluate the query reformulation performance of CogPlanner in comparison with various backbones, including direct prompt engineering approaches with these MLLMs. Among the config- urations tested, GPT-4o with parallel modeling emerges as the highest-performing setting. Notably, CogPlanner demonstrates its ability to significantly enhance the accuracy and informativeness of the original multimodal queries, thereby improving the over- all query formulation process. This improvement underscores the core objective of query reformulation within the context of MRAG Planning, highlighting the robustness and effectiveness of the Cog- Planner framework. Moreover, the results reveal that the query reformulation performance is highly contingent upon the selection of the planning expert MLLMs. 6.3 Lightweight Model Performance In this section, we assess the performance of our fine-tuned Qwen2- 7B-VL-Cog from both effectiveness and efficiency perspectives. The results are presented in Table 4. 6.3.1 Model Evaluation.To ensure a fair comparison, we use the Qwen2-VL-72B-Instruct as the reference model for final answer gen- eration. Both Qwen2-VL-72B-Instruct and our fine-tuned Qwen2- 7B-VL-Cog are utilized as planning experts within the CogPlanner framework, facilitating an assessment of whether smaller MLLMs, specifically through our tailored supervised fine-tuning procedure, can effectively manage the complexities inherent in MRAG planning tasks. The results underscore the critical role of model selection in determining the overall performance. While larger MLLMs typi- cally demonstrate superior results, our Qwen2-7B-VL-Cog closely approximates the performance of Qwen2-VL-72B-Instruct across most evaluation metrics. This finding serves to validate the efficacy of our fine-tuning strategy. Under the CogPlanner framework, our results demonstrate that it is indeed possible to deploy a resource- efficient planning expert, leading to enhanced performance