and refinement of complex queries into manageable sub-components. Crucially, this process is inherently adaptive - guided by the individual’s prior knowledge and cognitive capabilities, with the goal of converging toward a state of conceptual clarity and informational completeness. CogPlanner operationalizes this cognitive architecture through an iterative decision-making framework. It dynamically orches- trates a chain of decisions for each query, optimizing both effective- ness and efficiency in conjunction with the downstream MLLMs. As shown in Figure 2, the multimodal query — seeking up-to-date news about Luigi’s arrest — requires three processing rounds to gather sufficient information for the current GPT knowledge base. CogPlanner centers on two critical decisions in P: (1) query refor- mulation, and (2) action selection among text search, image search, and non-search, corresponding to the sub-tasks outlined in Section 3.1. We implement the core state transition function F through a planning expert who makes these decisions at each iteration, com- pleting the roles of F𝐼𝐴 and F𝑄𝑅 . Then, the retrieval is invoked to assess and process relevant multimodal elements. 4.2.1 Planning Expert.We employ an MLLM as the planning ex- pert. As formalized in Equation 2, at each iterative step, the expert analyzes the current multimodal content, evaluates the information gathered thus far, and subsequently determines the most appro- priate follow-up retrieval action and reformulates the query. To accomplish this, we propose two distinct modeling paradigms - parallel modeling and sequential modeling - each of which differs in the order in which the decision-making occurs. Parallel ModelingIn the parallel modeling paradigm, the plan- ning expert concurrently adjusts the query and determines the appropriate retrieval action. Specifically, it takes the current query alongside the information retrieved in the preceding iteration as inputs. The implementation employs two parallel threads of MLLM inference: one is responsible for query reformulation, while the