ent capabilities of MLLMs to reason and process multimodal data, rendering the retrieval step redundant or counterproductive. • Inadequate Query Formation: The visual incompleteness, tex- tual ambiguity, and conciseness create a fundamental impediment that fails to retrieve pertinent information. Furthermore, these 1∗ These authors contributed equally to this work. 2† Corresponding author. arXiv:2501.15470v2 [cs.IR] 31 Oct 2025 SIGIR-AP 2025, December 7-10, 2025, Xi’an, China Trovato et al. existing single-step MRAG methodologies prove inadequate for addressing multi-hop queries that require a multi-step reasoning process [13]. In response to these real-world limitations, we propose a new task, Multimodal Retrieval-Augmented Generation Planning (MRAG Planning). The objective is to establish optimized trajectories for information seeking and integration in multimodal queries. It guies the downstream MLLMs toward more accurate and comprehensive responses, while reducing the computational overhead. This task constitutes a central component in the development of effective agentic MRAG systems. To this end, the MRAG Planning task is decomposed into two interrelated sub-tasks: (1) Information acqui- sition that discerns the truly necessary information required by the MLLMs and devises the appropriate retrieval strategies accordingly. (2) Query reformulation, which involves decomposing complex, multi-hop queries into manageable atomic sub-queries and refining them for clarity and informativeness. Figure 1 illustrates a multi- hop reasoning example where the first step is to identify the game name AstroBot through an image search. The initial query is then decomposed into two sub-queries, each focusing on the sales data for the two respective games. Subsequent web searches are con- ducted to retrieve sales data and generate the final response. This example underscores the crucial need for dynamic planning proce- dures in MRAG systems where both order and selection of retrieval methods, and query reformulation are determined tailored to the specific characteristics of the multimodal query. To address the challenges of MRAG