variants. This enhance- ment is attributed to its ability to decompose and refine complex queries. By simplifying these queries, CogPlanner facilitates the dynamic determination of necessary retrieval actions, thereby en- suring the acquisition of accurate, complementary information. These results highlight the critical role of MRAG Planning in op- timizing the performance of MRAG systems. (2)Weakness of Fixed Search Strategies: The two fixed search strategies, while offering some improvements in specific metrics, generally exhibit a negative impact when compared to direct responses generated by MLLMs. As anticipated, these rigid search actions, particularly when applied to concise queries and screenshot images within mul- timodal queries, introduce noise that misleads downstream MLLMs rather than providing useful information. The noisy retrieval results tend to obscure the relevant information, thereby diminishing the effectiveness of the system. These findings further validate the mo- tivation behind the development of the CogPlanner framework. (3) Comparison of Parallel and Sequential Modeling Approaches: Comparing our parallel and sequential modeling methodologies, they show comparable performance, each demonstrating signifi- cant improvements over traditional MRAG systems. However, the sequential modeling approach does not exhibit a substantial ad- vantage over the parallel approach. This suggests that the current capabilities of MLLMs are insufficient for accurately evaluating complementary information in a sequential manner (4)Benefits on Multihop Query: The performance of CogPlanner shows vari- ability across 1-3 hop query categories, with more pronounced improvements observed in multi-hop queries. This pattern suggests that the iterative and adaptive planning process of CogPlanner is particularly beneficial in scenarios that require the retrieval of in- formation from multiple sources and involve multi-step reasoning to formulate a complete and accurate response. 6.2.2 Query Reformulation Performance.As illustrated in Table 3, we evaluate the query reformulation performance of CogPlanner in comparison with various backbones, including direct prompt engineering approaches with these MLLMs. Among