IEEE International Conference on Multimedia Information Processing and Retrieval (MIPR) , San Jose, CA, 2024. © 2024 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media, including reprinting/republishing this material for advertising or promotional purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works. Retrieval Augmented Structured Generation: Business Document Information Extraction As Tool Use Franz Louis Cesista, Rui Aguiar, Jason Kim, Paolo Acilo Expedock Software, Inc , San Francisco, United States franzlouiscesista@gmail.com, raguiar1000@gmail.com, jasonminsookim@gmail.com, paolo@expedock.com Abstract—Business Document Information Extraction (BDIE) is the problem of transforming a blob of unstructured infor- mation (raw text, scanned documents, etc.) into a structured format that downstream systems can parse and use. It has two main tasks: Key-Information Extraction (KIE) and Line Items Recognition (LIR). In this paper, we argue that BDIE is best modeled as a T ool Use problem, where the tools are these downstream systems. We then present Retrieval Augmented Structured Generation (RASG), a novel general framework for BDIE that achieves state of the art (SOTA) results on both KIE and LIR tasks on BDIE benchmarks. The contributions of this paper are threefold: (1) We show, with ablation benchmarks, that Large Language Models (LLMs) with RASG are already competitive with or surpasses current SOTA Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) without RASG on BDIE benchmarks. (2) We propose a new metric class for Line Items Recognition, General Line Items Recognition Metric (GLIRM), that is more aligned with practical BDIE use cases compared to existing metrics, such as ANLS*, DocILE, and GriTS. (3) We provide a heuristic algorithm for backcalculating bounding boxes of predicted line items and tables without the need for vision encoders.