indexing and retrieval as training and inference processes, respectively. The in- dexing (training) process typically trains a seq2seq model [28] to map queries to the docids corresponding to relevant documents, using extensive training data of query–docid pairs [37]. In the retrieval (inference) process, the trained model takes a query text as input and directly generates potentially relevant docids. Limitations. Existing studies typically rely ontraining-based indexingto mem- orisetheassociationsbetweenaqueryanditsdocid.Thenatureoftraining-based †These two authors contributed equally. arXiv:2408.02152v3 [cs.IR] 23 Dec 2025 2 Askari et al. indexing has two main limitations: (i) The approach has a high training over- head [16]. Existing studies typically use an LLM [13,14] as the backbone and then fine-tune it with a new learning objective: mapping query text to docids. Fine– tuning an LLM with a new objective demands large-scale query–docid pairs, considerable time, and numerous GPUs. (ii) The approach does not make effec- tive use of LLMs’ pre-trained knowledge. Because there is a gap between the learning objectives of LLMs pre-training (text generation) and GR fine-tuning (query–docid mapping), fine-tuning an LLM with GR’s objective may cause the LLM to forget its pre-trained knowledge [16]. Little research has explored mainly usingLLMs’ pre-trainedknowledgeforGR indexing,withoutheavytraining [16]. A new perspective on GR. To address the limitation, we propose afew-shot indexing-basedGRframework (Few-Shot GR). Unlike previous GR approaches based on training-based indexing, Few-Shot GR has afew-shot indexingprocess, where we index a document corpus without requiring any training. Specifically, in the few-shot indexing process, Few-Shot GR prompts an LLM in a few-shot way to generate a free-text docid for each document in a corpus. This process ultimately produces adocid bankfor all documents in an entire corpus. During the retrieval process (inference), the same LLM used in few-shot indexing takes a query as input and uses constrained beam search [6] to ensure the generated docid matches a