MethodIndexing (hr) Retrieval (ms) DSI-QG 240 72 GenRET≈16,800 72 Few-Shot GR 37 98 llama-3-8B-Instruct.WefoundthatLlama-3-8B-Instructperformsthebestacross most metrics, followed by Zephyr-7B-β. However, both markedly outperform T5-base in terms of performance. It suggests that selecting an effective LLM is another critical factor contributing to the success of Few-Shot GR. Efficiency of indexing and retrieval. Table 3 presents the indexing time and retrieval latency for Few-Shot GR compared to two training-based GR methods, DSI-QG [37] and GenRET [30]. The time cost of indexing is measured in hours (hr) on the training set of NQ320K, while the retrieval query latency is measured in milliseconds (ms) on the test set of NQ320K. We perform all measurements on a single A100 GPU (80GB) with a batch size of 16, except for the indexing (training) of GenRET. We inquired with the authors of GenRET [30] about GenRET’s indexing (training) time, and they indicated it took 7 days on 100 A100 GPUs. This implies it may take approximately 16,800 hours on a single A100GPU.WefoundthatFew-ShotGRissignificantlymoreefficientinindexing than existing GR methods. Also, Few-Shot GR achieves similar retrieval query latency compared to existing GR methods. 5 Conclusions & Future Work We have proposed a new, efficient, and effective GR paradigm, Few-Shot GR, featuring a few-shot indexing process that solely relies on prompting an LLM to recordassociationsbetweenqueriesandtheirdocids,eliminatingtheneedforany training steps. We have designedfew-shot indexing with one-to-many mapping to further enhance Few-Shot GR’s indexing. Experimental results show that GR achieves superior performance to training-intensive state-of-the-art GR methods. Suitability for dynamic corpora. Training-based indexing struggles with dy- namic corpora, as training on new documents often causes forgetting of old ones [15]. Although several studies attempt to mitigate this issue [17,10,4,8], it remains inherent to training-based methods. Few-Shot GR alleviates this chal- lenge by enabling easy addition or removal of docids in the few-shot indexing docid bank, thus