specific skills and educational needs. This dataset effectively sup- ports our objective to enhance accessibility and personalized learning through course recommendations. We first cleaned the dataset to remove meaningless symbols and duplicate rows, and it has 3,342 non-duplicate courses in total after data-cleaning, with 6 columns: • Course Name: The title of the course. • University: The institution offering the course. • Difficulty Level: The level of complexity of the course content. • Rating: The average rating given by learners. • URL: The web address where the course can be ac- cessed. • Description: A brief overview of what the course cov- ers. • Skills: The specific abilities or knowledge areas that the course aims to develop. 3.2 Recommendation System Design 3.2.1 Prompt Design The “cold start” problem, where systems lack user histori- cal data, is a significant challenge in recommendation sys- tems. Both traditional course recommender algorithums like content-based and collaborative-filtering algorithms and LLM-based system recommendation systems struggle with this issue. However, our RAG-based solution addresses this by using a ‘prompt template’ in the back-end. This template 1https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/khusheekapoor/ coursera-courses-dataset-2021 guides RAMO to generate relevant responses even when no user-specific data is available, as detailed in Table 1. The RAMO system can provide meaningful recommendations from the outset, unlike non-RAG-based recommender sys- tems, which lack a retrieval process and prompt-based cus- tomization. The prompt to our retriever (i.e., to retrieve the relevant docs from the databases) is called the ‘prompt template’, which is shown in Table 1. The prompt to our generator is composed with three parts: 1) User Question , 2) Prompt Template , and 3) Search Results (the context of the retrieved relevant documents). We also added the uplift- ing adverb ‘ fantastic’ to the prompt template, to elevate it with Emotional Intelligence since ChatGPT is designed to