ing an extensive range of courses through an easily acces- ∗This paper underwent a rigorous review process and was officially accepted on May 31, 2024, for presentation at the Educational Data Mining 2024 Workshop: Leveraging Large Language Models for Next Generation Educational Tech- nologies. sible online platform, MOOCs not only enhance individual learning and development but also enrich the broader ed- ucational community [4]. However, the diverse categories of courses across disciplines can often overwhelm students when they step into new fields of study [17]. Selecting the right courses that align with both personal interests and aca- demic requirements is crucial, as improper choices may lead to wasted time, and resources, and a lack of fulfillment in one’s educational journey. To resolve this, researchers have developed course recom- mender systems using advanced algorithms to offer tailored guidance that aligns with individual learning preferences [30]. Many existing implementations of recommendation systems have demonstrated significant benefits, such as en- hancing personalized learning experiences and improving stu- dent engagement, as highlighted by a recent study [11]. How- ever, these systems also face critical limitations, particularly the “cold start” problem, which occurs when trying to make recommendations for new users with limited historical data [15]. Though previous research proposed a more complex framework—a novel meta-learning heterogeneous informa- tion networks approach [25]—to address the “cold start” rec- ommendation issue, the approach faces the challenge of high computational complexity, which is not scalable for large- scale MOOCs platforms. In response to address the limitations of prior work in recom- mendation systems, where the recommendations lack suffi- cient personalization and interaction with users, researchers have proposed integrating large language models (LLMs) into course recommendations [18]. This approach enhances recommendation accuracy and personalization by leverag- ing user history and conversational prompts. Recent frame- works like GPT4Rec [21] and