opportunity for future research to in- novate and improve student course selection processes. 2.2 Large Language Models in Education Large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT, trained on extensive datasets, have the ability to generate human-like text and respond to questions with exceptional precision [12, 36]. Many studies have highlighted the potential of LLMs in educational applications, leveraging their capabilities to enhance various aspects of teaching and learning. For ex- ample, Kabir and Lin [16] developed an adaptive practicing system utilizing ChatGPT to generate personalized ques- tions and feedback, demonstrating LLMs’ potential in facil- itating tailored educational interactions. Researchers inves- tigated multiple GPT models on their ability to generate tailored learning materials and provide instant feedback on student errors, enhancing personalized learning experiences [34]. Huber et al. [13] demonstrated the use of LLMs in creating interactive, conversational systems that assist both students and teachers by providing adaptive learning sup- port and resources. Moreover, LLMs are also used in gener- ating automatic feedback for students [5, 6], handling sparse learner performance data [37] from intelligent tutoring sys- tems, predicting learning performance [38], and supporting tutor training session [23]. 2.3 Retrieval-Augmented Generation in Edu- cation Retrieval-augmented generationn (RAG) has emerged as a significant technique to enhance the effectiveness of educa- tional tools powered by LLMs. For example, a study [20] integrated textbook content into LLM prompts via RAG improved the quality of responses in interactive question- answering (QA) scenarios for middle-school math students, and demonstrated that students generally prefer responses generated by RAGs. RAG has also been employed in pro- gramming education to generate improved feedback for stu- dent’s completion of coding tasks [14], by incorporating tran- scriptions of lecture recordings and using timestamps as meta-information, RAG reduces hallucinations and ensures the use of accurate technical terms. Moreover, RAG has been utilized to