and demonstrated that students generally prefer responses generated by RAGs. RAG has also been employed in pro- gramming education to generate improved feedback for stu- dent’s completion of coding tasks [14], by incorporating tran- scriptions of lecture recordings and using timestamps as meta-information, RAG reduces hallucinations and ensures the use of accurate technical terms. Moreover, RAG has been utilized to assess novice math tutors’ use of social- emotional learning strategies [22], they proved that RAG- enhanced prompts demonstrated more accurate and cost- effective performance compared to other prompting strate- gies by providing relevant external content. This application highlights the potential of RAG in developing personalized tutor training programs and enhancing the overall effective- ness of tutored learning. While traditional course recommender systems have laid the groundwork for personalized education, the integration of LLMs and techniques such as RAG offers unprecedented opportunities for enhancing educational experiences. These advanced methods address limitations of earlier approaches and pave the way for more sophisticated and effective edu- cational tools, inspiring us to utilize RAG in developing our course recommender system. 3. METHOD 3.1 Dataset In this study, we utilized the “Coursera Courses Dataset 2021”1 from Kaggle. The dataset, scraped from Coursera’s publicly available information in September 2021, contains a variety of courses that feature comprehensive details such as skill requirements, difficulty levels, and direct course links. It provides a robust knowledge base for our RAMO system, enabling it to suggest courses tailored to students’ specific skills and educational needs. This dataset effectively sup- ports our objective to enhance accessibility and personalized learning through course recommendations. We first cleaned the dataset to remove meaningless symbols and duplicate rows, and it has 3,342 non-duplicate courses in total after data-cleaning, with 6 columns: • Course Name: The title of the course. • University: The institution offering the