emphasizes that while smaller language models may still benefit from fine-tuning, larger models gain little additional advantage. Additionally, fine-tuning remains resource-intensive. Combining RAG with fine-tuning can lead to further improvements to performance in specialized domains as shown in [18]. Current research in OCL rule generation has focused on other approaches, such as fine-tuning [9]. This study uses RAG but does not evaluate the impact of it or experiment with different retrieval configurations. Other current work about OCL rule generation using LLMs include [10] and [19], which either fully inject the meta-model without retrieval or use a path-based approach. However, the impact of retrieval-based methods such as RAG on OCL rule generation remains underexplored. This gap in the literature highlights the necessity of further investigating retrieval-based strategies to enhance the accuracy and efficiency of OCL rule generation. By evaluating different retrieval configurations and assessing their impact, this study aims to contribute a novel perspective to the field. This study explores the optimization of RAG for OCL rule generation, focusing on different retrieval approaches to enhance model performance. We investigate traditional lexical-based retrieval (BM25) [20], semantic dense-vector retrieval using transformer-based models (BERT) [21], and semantic sparse- vector retrieval (SPLADE) [22]. BM25 is a keyword-matching method that scores documents based on term frequency and inverse document frequency. BERT-based retrieval uses contextual embeddings to capture semantic similarity between queries and documents. SPLADE, on the other hand, creates sparse representations of text using learned term expansions, combining term matching and the ability to find nearest neighbors. While these methods have been extensively studied in general NLP tasks, their effectiveness in a RAG approach to OCL rule generation remains unexplored. This study bridges that gap by systematically evaluating retrieval strategies and their impact on generation accuracy. We aim to identify optimal configurations for improving OCL constraint