Optimizing Retrieval Augmented Generation for Object Constraint Language Kevin Chenhao Li1,*, Vahid Zolfaghari 1, Nenad Petrovic 1, Fengjunjie Pan 1 and Prof. Alois Knoll1 1Technical University of Munich (TUM), Arcisstraße 21 D-80333 Munich, Germany Abstract The Object Constraint Language (OCL) is essential for defining precise constraints within Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE). However, manually writing OCL rules is complex and time-consuming. This study explores the optimization of Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) for automating OCL rule generation, focusing on the impact of different retrieval strategies. We evaluate three retrieval approaches—BM25 (lexical-based), BERT-based (semantic retrieval), and SPLADE (sparse-vector retrieval)—analyzing their effectiveness in providing relevant context for a large language model. To further assess our approach, we compare and benchmark our retrieval-optimized generation results against PathOCL, a state-of-the-art graph-based method. We directly compare BM25, BERT, and SPLADE retrieval methods with PathOCL to understand how different retrieval methods perform for a unified evaluation framework. Our experimental results, focusing on retrieval-augmented generation, indicate that while retrieval can enhance generation accuracy, its effectiveness depends on the retrieval method and the number of retrieved chunks (k). BM25 underperforms the baseline, whereas semantic approaches (BERT and SPLADE) achieve better results, with SPLADE performing best at lower k values. However, excessive retrieval with high k parameter can lead to retrieving irrelevant chunks which degrades model performance. Our findings highlight the importance of optimizing retrieval configurations to balance context relevance and output consistency. This research provides insights into improving OCL rule generation using RAG and underscores the need for tailoring retrieval. Keywords Retrieval-Augmented Generation, Object Constraint Language, Model-Based Systems Engineering, Large Lan- guage Models, Information Retrieval 1. Introduction Object Constraint Language [1] plays an important role in Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) by enabling precise constraint definition within meta-models. OCL is used to ensure the integrity of system designs by specifying conditions that