using RAG and underscores the need for tailoring retrieval. Keywords Retrieval-Augmented Generation, Object Constraint Language, Model-Based Systems Engineering, Large Lan- guage Models, Information Retrieval 1. Introduction Object Constraint Language [1] plays an important role in Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) by enabling precise constraint definition within meta-models. OCL is used to ensure the integrity of system designs by specifying conditions that must be held within a model. It is widely used in Unified Modeling Language (UML) [ 2] and Eclipse Modeling Framework (EMF) [ 3] by defining invariants, preconditions, postconditions, and derived attributes, which cannot be specified by the model itself and thereby enhancing model expressiveness. However, manually writing OCL rules is complex and time-consuming, requiring a deep understand- ing of both the system model and OCL syntax. Natural language is often the starting point for defining system constraints, such as those given in the requirements and specifications of the system. This makes an automated approach that translates natural language specifications into OCL rules highly attractive and could significantly improve efficiency and accessibility. Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized automated code and rule generation. Models such as GPT-4 [4], DeepSeek [5], and Meta-Llama-3 [6] have demonstrated remark- able capabilities in understanding and generating structured text, including programming languages and domain-specific rule sets. These models leverage pre-trained knowledge from large text corpora, enabling them to generalize across different programming languages, formal notations, and syntactic structures. In particular, LLMs have been thoroughly applied in natural language-to-code translation First Workshop on Large Language Models For Generative Software Engineering (LLM4SE 2025) *Corresponding author. /envel⌢pe-⌢penkevinchenhao.li@tum.de (K. C. Li); v.zolfaghari@tum.de (V. Zolfaghari); nenad.petrovic@tum.de (N. Petrovic); f.pan@tum.de (F. Pan); k@tum.de (Prof. A. Knoll) © 2025 Copyright for this paper by its authors. Use permitted under Creative Commons License Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0). [7]