our study demonstrates the possible benefits of retrieval-based approaches, it is not without limitations. First, our evaluation was conducted on a relatively small filtered subset of the dataset, which may not generalize to all OCL rule generation scenarios. While these metrics provide an initial assessment of textual similarity and closeness, they do not capture functional correctness. To complement our automated metrics, future work could add validation of whether generated OCL rules conform to formal OCL syntax, human expert review, and in-depth error analysis. Moreover, while we evaluated diverse retrieval approaches in our experiments, further research is needed to explore more advanced retrieval techniques, such as hybrid approaches like multi-stage retrieval. Fine-tuning retrieval models specifically for OCL constraints may also yield additional performance gains over our base models. Another underexplored way to improve the generation of OCL rules based on natural language specifications could be refining the chunking strategy to ensure that retrieved information is both concise and semantically rich, for example by grouping chunks that are semantically connected. Instead of just retrieving meta-model chunks, it could also be beneficial to retrieve appropriate best practices and OCL examples, to leverage in context learning. 4. Conclusion Our study investigated the impact of different retrieval strategies on the performance of a Retrieval- Augmented Generation pipeline for generating OCL rules. We evaluated three retrieval methods, BM25, BERT-based retrieval, and SPLADE-based retrieval, analyzing their effectiveness in providing relevant context for a large language model. Our findings indicate that while retrieval can enhance generation accuracy, its effectiveness is highly dependent on the retrieval method and the number of retrieved chunks 𝑘. BM25-based retrieval underperformed the baseline, likely due to its reliance on exact term matching, which may not always align with natural language specifications. In contrast, semantic retrieval approaches such as BERT and SPLADE provided better