all these scenarios, the missing feature issues could catastrophically compromise the capability of machine learning models [ 52], which motivates many previous works developing solutions to handling missing feature issue [73]. Since our proposed TopoRAG can naturally generate node fea- tures in graph-based datasets, in this section, we evaluate its effec- tiveness in handling missing features by comparing its performance against other conventional baselines handling missing node fea- tures for graph-based tasks. We take the Cora dataset and consider two tasks, node classification (NC) and link prediction (LP). For NC, we follow the traditional semi-supervised setting [65] and for LP, we divide training/validation/testing links by 70%/10%/20% follow- ing [78]. For baselines handling missing feature issues, we consider baselines that set missing features to 0 (Zero); a random value from a standard Gaussian (Random); and also the global mean of that feature over the graph (Global Mean). We consider equip- ping the backbone GCN and MLP with each of these strategies. In Figure ??, we visualize the performance of different baselines at different missing feature rates from 0.1 to 0.9. We can observe that TopoRAG consistently outperforms other strategies in both node classification and link prediction across all rates of missing features. This underscores the benefits of incorporating additional context in handling missing feature issues on graphs. Augmenting Textual Generation via Topology Aware Retrieval Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA 7 RELATED WORK 7.1 Retrieval Augmented Generation Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) refers to augmenting the performance of generative-based tasks via retrieving relevant in- formation from external knowledge bases [9, 12, 23, 28, 33, 37, 39]. Conventionally, RAG is widely used in enhancing the performance of question-answering tasks by retrieving supporting facts includ- ing the answer to the given question [ 31, 33, 42, 69]. With the advent of LLMs, RAG gained