in current RAGs, we bridge the connection between topo- logical and textual relations, and study their potential in enhancing RAGs for text generation. Our empirical analysis reveals the positive relation between the nodes’ textual relations and their topological relations, which inspires us to explore the idea of augmenting text generation by incorporating topological relations. To validate the feasibility of this idea, we address two key questions: can the text generation be improved by incorporating additional texts? To an- swer the first question, we incrementally increase the contextual similarity to the text to be generated and observe a corresponding performance increase. Secondly, can textual relations between any pair of nodes be reflected by their topological relations? To answer the second question, we analyze the correlation between the textual relations between any two nodes and their proximity/role-based topological relations. Affirmative answers to the above two ques- tions inspire us to propose a framework, Topology-aware Retrieval- augmented Generation (Topo-RAG), which augments text genera- tion by retrieving relevant texts based on their proximity/role-based topological similarity. We pioneer the use of the task-oriented ap- proach to verify the effectiveness of the Topo-RAG framework in text generation. • Bridging Topological and Textual Relations: we discover the positive correlation between proximity/role-based topological relations of any pair of two nodes and their textual relations over Figure 2: (a)-(b): Cora citation network where nodes are pa- pers and edges are reference relations. Papers that are topo- logically closer to paper 0 have higher textual similarity to its text; (c)-(d): Eron-email network where nodes represent employees and edges denote their email communications. For each row in the two heatmaps, employees in diagonal entries share higher textual similarity and lower role-based topological distance than the ones belonging to off-diagonal entries in the same row. This indicates that employees with the same