topological similarity, and visualize it along with the pairwise tex- tual similarity in Figure 4(a) 2. We can see the pairwise textual similarity increases as the pairwise topological similarity increases. Moreover, we calculate the Pearson correlation across different datasets at different diffusion layers 𝑘 in Eq. (3) in Figure 4(b). In all six datasets, the correlation is positive and increases as the dif- fusion layer increases as the higher diffusion layer considers the higher-order paths in quantifying the topological proximity, which becomes more aligned with their textual similarity. Different from Cora/Pubmed/Arxiv/Product/Amazon-Book, the correlation on the Epinion dataset does not increase since reviews posted by the same person may not necessarily be similar if the products are different. 4.2 Role-based Topological Similarity Unlike proximity-based topological similarity which considers nodes residing closely in one network to be similar, role-based topological similarity focuses on identifying nodes with topologically similar neighborhoods [51]. Intuitively, nodes with similar local structures perform similar functions in the network and hence possess similar textual information in some aspects, such as the employees’ tone should be different from the vice presidents’ tone in a company [24]. 2Similar analysis on other datasets are included in Figure 8 in Appendix A.2 Augmenting Textual Generation via Topology Aware Retrieval Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Figure 5: Correlation between Role-based Topological Dis- tance and Textual Similarity on Eron-Email Dataset where role-based topological distance is calculated based on the L2-distance between embeddings of two employees obtained from GraphWave while textual similarity is calculated as the average cosine similarity of textual embeddings of either the sent (a) or received emails (b) between two employees. Following this intuition, we employ one of the most representa- tive embedding methods, GraphWave, that encodes the node local structure information in the next. Following GraphWave [8], the spectral graph wavelet