because each text within the same text-attributed network is generally related to the same domain, e.g., all texts in Cora are papers and all texts in Epinion are reviews. Hence, incorporating additional texts can provide in- sights into potential writing styles and usage of domain-specific terminology, which benefits the text generation of the target node. Comparing performance boosts across different evaluation metrics reveals that improvements under BLEU-4 often result in relatively larger gains compared to those under ROUGE-L and BERT-F1. This is because BLEU-4 emphasizes exact matches of words and phrases in the generated text against the reference, making it particularly sensitive to precise word matching. Conversely, ROUGE-L mea- sures the overlap of n-grams between generated and reference texts, regardless of their order or precise phrasing, rendering it less sen- sitive than BLEU. BERT-F1, which evaluates semantic meaning, is even less sensitive to exact word matches, focusing more on the contextual alignment of the content. Overall, this suggests that incorporating additional context into text generation is more bene- ficial for achieving similar terminology or writing style rather than for capturing general meaning. 6.2.2 Task-oriented Evaluation. In addition to conventional met- rics, we also utilize task-oriented metrics to assess the quality of the generated texts. Specifically, we evaluate the performance of node classification and link prediction using the generated texts from different baselines. As shown in Table 3, TopoRAG consistently achieves the highest performance across all GNN backbones in both node classification and link prediction on the Cora and Pubmed datasets. This indicates that the texts generated by TopoRAG are more closely aligned with the main topics (node classification) and citations (link prediction) of their corresponding papers. Moreover, Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA Table 3: Task-oriented Evaluation by comparing the node classification and link prediction performance of different baselines. The