paper 0 have higher textual similarity to its text; (c)-(d): Eron-email network where nodes represent employees and edges denote their email communications. For each row in the two heatmaps, employees in diagonal entries share higher textual similarity and lower role-based topological distance than the ones belonging to off-diagonal entries in the same row. This indicates that employees with the same roles share a higher textual similarity and lower topological distance than employees with different roles. nine datasets across four distinct domains, bridging the gap of node pairwise relations between topology space and text space. • Developing Topology-Informed RAG Framework: we equip the RAG with topological awareness by retrieving texts from the graph database according to their proximity/role-based similarity to the target entity for which the text is being generated. • Comprehensive Empirical Analysis : We construct a wide range of text-attributed graphs from diverse domains and conduct comprehensive experiments to verify the effectiveness of our framework. Moreover, we pioneer the use of node classification and link prediction to evaluate the quality of the generated texts. 2 PRELIMINARY 2.1 Motivative Examples To motivate the analysis of the correlation between the textual and topological relation, we take two examples, one analyzing the proximity-based relation (Figure 2(a)-(b)), and the other one analyzing the role-based relation (Figure 2(c)-(d)). 2.1.1 Textual Relation with Proximity-based Topological Relation. In Figure 2(a), we extract a subgraph centering around node 0 from the citation network, Cora, where each node represents a paper with the abstract as its textual information, and each edge indicates a reference relation between the corresponding two paper nodes. Meanwhile, we obtain textual embedding of each node by feeding its abstract through sentence-transformer [50] and calculate the Augmenting Textual Generation via Topology Aware Retrieval Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA pairwise cosine similarity in Figure 2(b).