[1, 14, 20, 81]. On the other hand, structural-based relations focus on the topological similarity between the local sub- structures of two nodes, e.g., two employees possessing the same title in a company share similar job responsibilities or airports acting as hubs following specific airline patterns [8, 51]. Previous works design various embedding-based methods capturing these two topological patterns. Methods such as Node2Vec and DeepWalk are mainly designed for capturing proximity-based topology pat- terns [17, 48] while Struc2Vec [51] and GraphWave [8] are mainly to capture structure-based patterns. Different from them, we ex- plore whether these topological patterns also correlate to the textual patterns, e.g., whether two closely interacted people share similar tweet contents in their Twitter accounts or two structurally similar employees share similar job descriptions. Furthermore, we leverage the discovered correlation to guide the retrieval and enhance text generation. 8 CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK Given the limited knowledge provided in the input texts and the hal- lucination problem of LLMs, traditional approaches have leveraged RAG to incorporate extra knowledge. However, they predominantly focus on question-answering tasks with no significant investment in text-generation tasks. Furthermore, they overlook two critical types of knowledge embedded in the topological space, proximity-based and role-based knowledge. Therefore, this research aims to improve Figure 7: (a) The textual similarity of sent emails by pairs of employees grouped based on their job titles; (b) The distribu- tion of passage length for each dataset. text generation performance by incorporating these two topolog- ical knowledge. Our empirical analysis reveals that LLMs benefit from additional texts that are similar to the target text. Moreover, by analyzing a wide range of text-attributed networks from diverse domains, we empirically verify the noticeable positive correlation between textual and proximity/role-based similarity. These findings have inspired us to develop Topology-aware Retrieval-Augmented Generation (Topo-RAG), a