represents a paper with the abstract as its textual information, and each edge indicates a reference relation between the corresponding two paper nodes. Meanwhile, we obtain textual embedding of each node by feeding its abstract through sentence-transformer [50] and calculate the Augmenting Textual Generation via Topology Aware Retrieval Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA pairwise cosine similarity in Figure 2(b). Comparing Figure 2(a) and (b), we observe that as nodes become further away from node 0, their textual similarity to node 0 gradually decreases, indicating the textual similarity between any pair of nodes is correlated to their proximity-based topological distance. 2.1.2 Textual Relation with Role-based Topological Relation. We use the Eron-email dataset [7] where we have access to emails sent from/received by employees with their job titles. We feed each email through the sentence-transformer [50] to obtain each email embedding. Then, we calculate the embedding of each employee by averaging the embeddings of their received emails. After that, we calculate pairwise textual similarity among employees and group them based on their job titles in Figure 2(c). For each row, we ob- serve that the diagonal entry generally has higher textual similarity compared with other off-diagonal entries in the same row, indicat- ing higher content similarity of emails received among employees possessing the same role in a company.1 Furthermore, we construct the graph with nodes being employees and edges being their email communications. We run GraphWave [8] to obtain employees’ role- based embeddings and encode their local structural information. We calculate pairwise L2 distance among employees and group them based on their job titles. Similarly, we observe a generally lower role-based topological distance for employees possessing the same roles, indicating their local subgraph structures are aligned with their job titles in reality. The above two observations motivate us to explore the