was reasonably assigned the smallest attention weight of 0.008. For Query 4, the composed tree is syntactically reasonable, but some relative important nodes were assigned with small attention weights. Although some noises have been introduced in the latent semantic tree construction, our model still finds relevant videos for Query 4, which shows the robustness of our model. 5 CONCLUSION In this work, we proposed a novel framework for complex-query video retrieval, which consists of a tree-based complex query en- coder and a temporal attentive video encoder. Specifically, it first automatically composes a latent semantic tree from words to model the user query based on a memory-augmented node scoring and selection strategy and then encodes the tree into a structure-aware query representation based on an attention mechanism. Besides, it jointly models the temporal dependence between frames and frame-wise temporal interaction in the temporal attentive video encoder, followed by an attentive pooling mechanism to vectorize the video. This work provides a novel direction for complex-query video retrieval by automatically transforming the complex query into an easy-to-interpret structure without any syntactic rules and annotations. In the future, we will explore the proposed approach for other language-guided video tasks, such as video moment re- trieval with natural language [23]. We also plan to integrate the multimedia indexing technique [11] with our approach for large- scale retrieval. We are also interested in exploring the external knowledge to enhance the text representation learning and the tree construction [2, 3] in the future study. 6 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This research is supported by The National Key Research and De- velopment Program of China under grant 2018YFB0804205, the National Research Foundation, Singapore under its International Research Centres in Singapore Funding Initiative, the National Natural Science Foundation of China under grant 61902347, and the Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation under grant