of recommendations based on contextual fit. We evaluate ARAG accross three datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that ARAG significantly outper- forms standard RAG and recency-based baselines, achieving up to ∗These authors contributed equally to this work. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. SIGIR, Padova, Italy © 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/2025/07 42.1% improvement in NDCG@5 and 35.5% in Hit@5. We also, con- duct an ablation study to analyse the effect by different components of ARAG. Our findings highlight the effectiveness of integrating agentic reasoning into retrieval-augmented recommendation and provide new directions for LLM-based personalization. CCS Concepts •Computing methodologies → Multi-agent planning; Natural language generation; Information extraction. Keywords Large Language Models, Personalization, Agentic Retrieval Aug- mented Generation ACM Reference Format: Reza Yousefi Maragheh, Pratheek Vadla, Priyank Gupta, Kai Zhao, Aysenur Inan, Kehui Yao, Jianpeng Xu, Praveen Kanumala, Jason Cho, and Sushant Kumar. 2025. ARAG: Agentic Retrieval Augmented Generation for Person- alized Recommendation. In Proceedings of ACM’s Special Interest Group on Information Retrieval (SIGIR). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 5 pages. 1 Introduction Adapting Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems to rec- ommendation scenarios offers promising opportunities to enhance the accuracy and personalization of suggestions [3, 4]. In this con- text, RAG can be leveraged to augment