evolve to provide more accurate, personalized, and contextually relevant recommendations, significantly enhanc- ing the user experience across various recommendation platforms. This paper presents ARAG: An Agentic Retrieval Augmented Generation framework for personalized recommendation. Building upon recent advancements in Agentic RAG across various domains, ARAG extends these principles to address the specific challenges of personalized recommendation systems. More specifically, under ARAG, and to better conduct the conversational ranking task, user long-term behavior is retrieved and passed through different agents to better adapt the rankings of documents. Through extensive experimentation, we assess the framework’s efficacy in improving these key aspects of recommendation sys- tems. The results demonstrate the potential of integrating agentic frameworks within the RAG paradigm for personalized recommen- dations, offering insights into how such an approach can enhance the accuracy and relevance of recommendations in various scenar- ios. 2 Methodology To better model user intent in personalized recommendation, we propose a multi-agent framework, ARAG, which introduces a set of specialized large language model (LLM) agents to refine context retrieval and item ranking. As shown in Figure 1, the input to the system consists of two components: (1) a long-term context cap- turing the user’s historical interactions, and (2) the current session, reflecting recent user behaviors. These interaction histories are used to retrieve a set of semantically relevant candidate items through embedding-based similarity. However, instead of relying solely on static retrieval scores, ARAG applies a reasoning-oriented agentic workflow to assess the contextual alignment of each candidate item. The workflow begins with the applying a regular RAG for retriev- ing the an initial set of larger recall set of items. Then, an NLI Agent evaluates whether each candidate item supports or aligns with this inferred user intent by analyzing its textual metadata (e.g., title, description, reviews). Then, a context summary agent summarizes