during training (Zhang et al., 2024). Target- ing at this issue, Zhang et al. (2024) proposed a text-based FR solution, namely TransFR. Trained using textual features, TransFR demonstrates bet- ter generalization on heterogeneous FR settings. However, TransFR suffers from data sparsity and is not capable of handling long user-item sequences. Compared to existing FR methods, the hybrid re- trieval mechanism in GPT-FedRec is designed to address the data sparsity and heterogeneity in FR. Unlike TransFR, GPT-FedRec is capable of model- ing long sequences. Natural Language for Recommendation. The inherent generality of textual features empowered the generalizability and transferability of recom- menders. For instance, to achieve better transfer- ability, Hou et al. (2023a, 2022) train sequential rec- ommenders using language-model-encoded item texts. Similary, in (Li et al., 2023a; Geng et al., 2022), pretrained language models are finetuned using item descriptions and then used as recom- menders. These text-based recommender systems demonstrate state-of-the-art generalizability in dif- ferent recommendation scenarios. However, they usually require rich textual data to enable fine- funing and could not handle long user histories. On the other hand, LLMs as recommenders have gained increased attention for LLMs’ impressive generalization ability. The mainstream LLM-based recommenders exploits the pretrained knowledge within LLMs to perform next-item recommenda- tion (Hou et al., 2023b; Sileo et al., 2022; Sun et al., 2023; He et al., 2023). For example, He et al. (2023) employees LLMs as conversational agents to understand user preferences and improve recommendation. Another stream of LLM-based recommendation designs tuning strategies tailored for specific subtasks (e.g., rating prediction) to im- prove recommendation performance (Chen, 2023; Kang et al., 2023; Yue et al., 2023a). However, ex- isting LLM-based recommenders mainly generate recommendation candidates in an autoregressive fashion. As such, the generated content might be irrelevant to the items of interests or even are hallu-