existing LLM-based recommenders suf- fer from issues like incomplete recommendations, low inference efficiency and potential hallucination (Yue et al., 2023a; Li et al., 2023b), impairing their applicability in real-world scenarios. Besides, in FR, it is neither affordable nor feasible for local clients to finetune LLMs with limited computa- tional resources and data. In addition, the next- word-generating nature of LLMs might generate irrelevant words in terms of recommendation, lead- ing to incomplete recommendations and low infer- ence efficiency (Yue et al., 2023a). Finally, as a consequence of hallucination, LLM-based recom- menders may recommend non-existing or make-up items, compromising user experience in real-world applications. To this end, in this work, we propose GPT- FedRec, a novel and effective two-stage frame- work for federated recommendation. Leveraging both the generalized features within training data and pretrained knowledge within LLMs (e.g., Chat- GPT), GPT-FedRec not only provides a complete solution in a data sparse and heterogeneous FR set- ting, but also outperforms existing methods with improved recommendation performance. As shown in Figure 2, GPT-FedRec operates in two stages. The first stage employs a novel hybrid retrieval mechanism to generate recommendation candidates using generalized data features. We pro- pose to adopt small-scale ID-based retrievers to capture the ID-based user patterns, and dense text- based retrievers to extract robust and generalized semantic features from item descriptions. The ra- tionale behind this design is: while the ID-based user history is informative in terms of representing user-item dynamics, the textual item descriptions (e.g., titles, categories) contain more generalized semantic features. Leveraging such generalized features improves generalization of the recommen- dation, especially in data-sparse and heterogeneous FR settings (Zhang et al., 2024). Consider the movie recommendation in Figure 1. The descrip- tions of these movies provide more information for the recommender: the movies watched by the new user could