does not require the finefuning of the LLMs. 3. We evaluate GPT-FedRec in the FR setting. On different benchmark datasets, experimen- tal results suggest that GPT-FedRec achieves considerable improvements in recommenda- tion performance, while outperforming state- of-the-art baselines. 2We adopt publicly available datasets and release the code at https://github.com/huiminzeng/GPT-FedRec.git. Text Description (e.g. movie titles, genres) ID-based Retriever Text-based Retriever Hybrid Retrieval ID 1 ID 2 ID 3 Prompt ### I’ve watched the following movies in the past in order:{history}. ### There is also candidate pool: {candidates}. ### {task instruction} RAG-based Re-ranking Parse outputs Re-ranked Candidates Figure 2: GPT-FedRec. The first stage involves a hybrid retrieval with an ID-based retriever and a text-based retriever. The second stage performs re-ranking via the retrieved results and RAG of the prompted GPT. 2 Related Work Federated Recommendation. Existing feder- ated recommendation (FR) systems are usually ID-based models: users/items are represented with unique identities (IDs). For instance, FCF (Ammad-Ud-Din et al., 2019), FedRec (Lin et al., 2020), FedMF (Chai et al., 2020) extend classic ID-based matrix factorization into federated mode. In comparison, Wu et al. (2022) train ID-based sequential recommenders to domain-disentangled features in a federated fashion, achieving better per- formance. Luo et al. (2022) aggregates ID-based model with a client utility-aware protocol for better federated recommendation. However, in heteroge- neous settings, these ID-based FR methods could not generalize well to cold-start users, because the items in the cold-start user data might never be seen during training (Zhang et al., 2024). Target- ing at this issue, Zhang et al. (2024) proposed a text-based FR solution, namely TransFR. Trained using textual features, TransFR demonstrates bet- ter generalization on heterogeneous FR settings. However, TransFR suffers from data sparsity and is not capable of handling long user-item sequences. Compared to existing FR methods, the hybrid re- trieval mechanism