the textual item descriptions (e.g., titles, categories) contain more generalized semantic features. Leveraging such generalized features improves generalization of the recommen- dation, especially in data-sparse and heterogeneous FR settings (Zhang et al., 2024). Consider the movie recommendation in Figure 1. The descrip- tions of these movies provide more information for the recommender: the movies watched by the new user could be depicted in texts like "war, action movies", which is semantically closer to the "sci-fi, action movies" on client 2, compared to the "love, romantic movies" on client 1. In the second stage, the retrieved candidates are fed into an LLM for re-ranking. This process leverages the pretrained generalized knowledge of LLM, thereby further improving the generalization of the recommenda- tion. Moreover, conditioning LLM re-rank on the first-stage results effectively prevents hallucination. This enhances recommendation performance for real-world users. Finally, due to space limit, we narrow down the scope of this work to the sequen- tial recommendation, for its superior performance over traditional recommendater systems (e.g., ma- trix factorization). We summarize the contributions of our paper as follows2: 1. To the best of our knowledge, GPT-FedRec is the first FR framework that uses hybrid RAG and LLMs. More importantly, GPT-FedRec withstands the critical challenge of data spar- sity and data heterogeneity in FR, achieving promising performance. 2. Technically, GPT-FedRec employs arbitrary ID-based retriever and arbitrary text-based re- triever to perform the hybrid retrieval. More- over, as a RAG method, GPT-FedRec does not require the finefuning of the LLMs. 3. We evaluate GPT-FedRec in the FR setting. On different benchmark datasets, experimen- tal results suggest that GPT-FedRec achieves considerable improvements in recommenda- tion performance, while outperforming state- of-the-art baselines. 2We adopt publicly available datasets and release the code at https://github.com/huiminzeng/GPT-FedRec.git. Text Description (e.g. movie titles, genres) ID-based Retriever Text-based Retriever Hybrid