Federated Recommendation via Hybrid Retrieval Augmented Generation Huimin Zeng Zhenrui Yue Qian Jiang Dong Wang Unversity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign {huiminz3, zhenrui3, qianj3, dwang24}@illinois.edu Abstract Federated Recommendation (FR) emerges as a novel paradigm that enables privacy-preserving recommendations. However, traditional FR sys- tems usually represent users/items with discrete identities (IDs), suffering from performance degradation due to the data sparsity and het- erogeneity in FR. On the other hand, Large Language Models (LLMs) as recommenders have proven effective across various recom- mendation scenarios. Yet, LLM-based rec- ommenders encounter challenges such as low inference efficiency and potential hallucina- tion, compromising their performance in real- world scenarios. To this end, we propose GPT- FedRec, a federated recommendation frame- work leveraging ChatGPT and a novel hybrid Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) mech- anism. GPT-FedRec is a two-stage solution. The first stage is a hybrid retrieval process, mining ID-based user patterns and text-based item features. Next, the retrieved results are converted into text prompts and fed into GPT for re-ranking. Our proposed hybrid retrieval mechanism and LLM-based re-rank aims to ex- tract generalized features from data and exploit pretrained knowledge within LLM, overcoming data sparsity and heterogeneity in FR. In addi- tion, the RAG approach also prevents LLM hal- lucination, improving the recommendation per- formance for real-world users. Experimental results on diverse benchmark datasets demon- strate the superior performance of GPT-FedRec against state-of-the-art baseline methods. 1 Introduction Recommendation systems play a vital role in aiding users to discover pertinent content of their interests, such as online commerce (Ying et al., 2018), social media (Fan et al., 2019). The prevailing strategy in developing recommendation systems involves ex- tracting users’ personalized preferences from their historical data. However, the concerns on data pri- vacy have prompted strict regulations on data gov- Client 1 Server Q: I’ve watched these movies, any