Table2Vec: Neural Word and Entity Embeddings for Table Population and Retrieval Li Deng University of Stavanger ninalx1991@gmail.com Shuo Zhang University of Stavanger shuo.zhang@uis.no Krisztian Balog University of Stavanger krisztian.balog@uis.no ABSTRACT Tables contain valuable knowledge in a structured form. We employ neural language modeling approaches to embed tabular data into vector spaces. Specifically, we consider different table elements, such caption, column headings, and cells, for training word and entity embeddings. These embeddings are then utilized in three particular table-related tasks, row population, column population, and table retrieval, by incorporating them into existing retrieval models as additional semantic similarity signals. Evaluation results show that table embeddings can significantly improve upon the performance of state-of-the-art baselines. CCS CONCEPTS •Information systems → Environment-specific retrieval; Re- trieval models and ranking ; Search in structured data; KEYWORDS Neural embeddings; table retrieval; table population; table2vec ACM Reference Format: Li Deng, Shuo Zhang, and Krisztian Balog. 2019. Table2Vec: Neural Word and Entity Embeddings for Table Population and Retrieval. InProceedings of the 42nd International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR ’19), July 21–25, 2019, Paris, France. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 4 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3331184.3331333 1 INTRODUCTION Tables contain a vast amount of useful information in the form of structured data. Recently, a growing body of work has developed around leveraging tabular data in various applications [ 1, 3, 4, 9, 10, 12–16]. In this paper, we focus on three particular table-related tasks: row population, column population, and table retrieval. All three tasks are performed on relational tables, which describe a set of entities placed in a core column, along with their attributes in ad- ditional columns. Table population is the task of populating a given seed table with additional elements [9, 14]. Specifically, we address the row population and column population tasks proposed in