XR with Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) [7]. A BCI functions as a communication system that allows direct control of computers or external devices through neural activity alone [8]. In AR, BCIs offer a powerful method for real-time engagement with AR headsets, leading to applications such as hands-free manipulation of information by medical professionals, direct neural command of robotic devices, and help with industrial or smart environ- ment controls. Furthermore, within VR systems, this enhanced BCI connectivity facilitates the creation of deeply immersive artificial environments. Such capabilities are fundamental to a variety of VR applications, including thought-based navigation through virtual spaces, entertainment experiences dynamically tailored to a user’s cognitive or emotional state, and com- prehensive rehabilitation programs where immersive scenarios help patients engage in therapeutic exercises [3]. Despite significant potentials and diverse applications, the integration of BCI-XR systems still faces several challenges. One of the most important constraints is at the hardware and technology level, as XR and BCI devices worn simultaneously can introduce mutual interference, leading to malfunction [9]. This integration also introduces serious ethical challenges, notably regarding user privacy, data security, and adverse cognitive consequences [10]. These technical and ethical com- plexities, along with the rapidly evolving BCI-XR landscape, require a comprehensive approach that systematically maps and plans policies to improve their societal impacts [11]. One of the main steps of decision making regarding such technologies is ” Technology Identification ”, defined as the process of developing a list of technologies which are or may be present in the field, firm, or product. Many methods for the latter have been developed. However, when the scope of the identification is the whole field and not just a product or a firm, ”Technology Mapping” has proved to be the best method arXiv:2507.21125v1 [cs.IR] 19 Jul 2025 [12]. Technology maps are visual representations