technologies which are or may be present in the field, firm, or product. Many methods for the latter have been developed. However, when the scope of the identification is the whole field and not just a product or a firm, ”Technology Mapping” has proved to be the best method arXiv:2507.21125v1 [cs.IR] 19 Jul 2025 [12]. Technology maps are visual representations of the core and peripheral technologies and their dynamics within a field. A well-established technique for constructing such maps and defining technologies and their relationships involves ana- lyzing the co-word occurrence of technology terms within the abstracts, keywords, and titles of scientific articles of the field [13]. However, the successful creation of these informative co-occurrence networks fundamentally depends on the accurate and consistent extraction of specific technology terms from vast amounts of contextual data. Due to the significant growth in scientific literature, manually reviewing these documents to identify specific technology terms is no longer feasible. Therefore, an automated approach is required [14]. Key methods to automating this task include: Rule- based linguistic methods which benefit from deep linguistic knowledge, yielding potentially high accuracy. However, they are computationally demanding and require significant domain expertise. Statistical techniques, on the other hand, utilize features from large corpora, offering language independence and achieving good results with sufficient data. Nonetheless, sometimes with less precision than linguistic methods. Fi- nally, machine learning strategies, often supervised, learn from tagged training documents to identify relevant terms in new texts [15]. In one of the most recent approaches Puccetti et al. suggested a BERT-based method in combination with a rule-based method. Combining the machine-learning method with rule-based models they achieved 40 percent precision for the task of technology entity recognition. The main issue addressed by the researchers causing the low precision was lack of annotated datasets for technologies within