texts [15]. In one of the most recent approaches Puccetti et al. suggested a BERT-based method in combination with a rule-based method. Combining the machine-learning method with rule-based models they achieved 40 percent precision for the task of technology entity recognition. The main issue addressed by the researchers causing the low precision was lack of annotated datasets for technologies within different fields [16]. The critical need for task-specific training via annotated data can be addressed by the use of Large Language Models (LLMs). While Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) like BERT introduced task-agnostic pre-training on text with sub- sequent fine-tuning, LLMs represent a significant advance- ment. These exceptionally scaled, transformer-based networks, trained on massive corpora, possess superior language under- standing and crucial emergent abilities not found in smaller PLMs. Such capabilities, including in-context learning from prompts, instruction following, and multi-step reasoning, can reduce the critical need for extensive task-specific training on annotated data for many applications [17], [18]. Thanks to recent advancements, LLMs can tackle novel tasks without specific training (zero-shot), leveraging their pre-trained gen- eral knowledge via in-context learning provided in prompts [19]. Nonetheless, these models encounter critical issues such as hallucination and outdated data especially in knowledge intensive tasks. Addressing these issues, Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) had been introduced. RAG systems retrieve relevant documents to the task from an external database based on similarity calculations, a process which enhances the performance of LLMs for special tasks significantly [20]. Challenges with precision in prior automated technology recognition methods, due to the lack of annotated datasets, highlight the need for a more reliable and generalizable approach. Although modern LLMs and RAG systems precisely execute tasks, they do not inherently guarantee that extracted terms genuinely represent ” Technology” without validation against scholarly criteria. The crucial missing element is a tar- geted methodological