library [32] for reading the processed Excel data and the NetworkX library for graph creation and manipulation [33]. Nodes with low edge wight were removed ( < 10) for better readability, then the average weighted degree, indicating the average sum of co-occurrence frequencies for each technology node, was calculated. The network diameter, defined as the longest shortest path between any two nodes, was determined to assess the overall compact- ness of the technology landscape. Furthermore, to evaluate the presence and strength of community structure within the network, modularity was calculated using the Louvain method [34] and Girvan-Newman method [35] as implemented in Gephi [36]. Finally, the average clustering coefficient, which measures the local cohesiveness and the propensity for tech- nologies to form tightly-knit groups, was computed. These metrics were selected to provide a comprehensive quantitative description of the network’s topology, connectivity, and com- munity organization. visual representation and exploration of the technology network maps, including the depiction of these communities and overall structural properties, VOSviewer was primarily utilized, employing its specific layout and visual- ization algorithms [37]. These quantitative metrics, alongside the visual maps, were selected to provide a comprehensive description of the network’s topology, connectivity, and com- munity organization. the specific values and their implications for the BCI-XR field are presented in the Results and Discus- sion sections. G. Methodological limitations Inherent biases in LLMs resulting from their pre-training phase are critical aspects requiring careful consideration [38], in sensitive fields like medicine, such biases could potentially lead to adverse outcomes for patients [39]. In our work these biases could lead to misidentification of technologies. Furthermore, while Web of Science is a well-regarded tool for scientific data collection, it, like any database, possesses inherent biases and limitations, and a consensus on an optimal universal source for publication data has not