of 0.44 (Fig 2). These metrics collectively describe the topological characteristics and the nuanced community organization of the refined technology co-occurrence network. These specific values and their implications for the BCI-XR field were detailed further in the Discussion section. the most prominent cluster based on Girvan-Newman consisted of 385 technologies, many of the most important technologies of the field (Highest weighted-degree) including BCI, VR, EEG, MI, Robotics were present in this cluster. Other notable cluster was the cluster including AR. The presence of AR in this cluster instead of the most prominent cluster is discussed further in Discussion. To visually explore these structural properties and the identified community structures, the final network Fig. 2. Representation of Girvan-Newman communities in the net- work representation of co-occurring technologies was then created using VOSviewer. This tool was employed for its capabilities in constructing and visualizing bibliometric maps based on co-occurrence data. IV. D ISCUSSION This study introduced RATE, a novel multi-stage LLM- based pipeline for technology extraction, and applied it to map the technological landscape of research at the intersection of XR and BCI. The discussion first reflects on the RATE methodology, then interprets the thematic clusters and broader network structures identified, and finally considers the impli- cations and future directions of this work. A. Performance and Methodological Contributions of RATE The RATE pipeline proved effective for technology extrac- tion, achieving a high F1-score of 0.91 significantly outper- forming state of the art supervised Machine Learning tech- niques such as BERT. Its success comes from an innovative multi-stage design. Initially, one LLM with RAG identifies a broad set of potential technology candidates. Then, cru- cially, a second LLM validates these candidates by assessing them against four distinct scholarly definitions of technology directly within their original textual context. This unique, definition-driven validation step significantly