fields like medicine, such biases could potentially lead to adverse outcomes for patients [39]. In our work these biases could lead to misidentification of technologies. Furthermore, while Web of Science is a well-regarded tool for scientific data collection, it, like any database, possesses inherent biases and limitations, and a consensus on an optimal universal source for publication data has not yet been estab- lished [40]. A major methodological limitation encountered during our experiments was the sensitivity of the initial LLM processing stage( II-C2) to prompt design. Even with efforts to employ deterministic settings, the outputs varied significantly depending on the specific prompts utilized. Consequently, using LLMs as a tool for entity extraction demands surgical precision in prompt engineering, which can be time-consuming and complex. Another significant challenge related to the contested nature of the term technology itself, many historical definitions are heavily debated, underscoring the difficulty of applying a single, universally accepted definition in automated tasks [41]. This lack of a universal definition posed consider- able complexities specifically in curating the RAG knowledge base and configuring the second LLM’s validation process. Moreover, while RATE does not incorporate domain-specific elements, its optimal performance and viability across diverse scientific disciplines would necessitate further extensive ex- perimentation. Finally, the multi-stage approach designed to maintain high levels of both recall and precision, inherently involves significant complexity and computational expense. TABLE I NETWORK STATISTICS OVERVIEW Parameter Value Indication Number of nodes 1260 Total number of unique technologies identified and included in the network. Number of edges 11610 Total number of co-occurrence relationships occurred. Network diameter 3 The longest shortest path between any two technologies in the network. Network density 0.015 Ratio of present edges to the maximum possible edges. Clustering co-efficient 0.912 The degree to which technologies in the network tend to cluster together. Average