unique technologies identified and included in the network. Number of edges 11610 Total number of co-occurrence relationships occurred. Network diameter 3 The longest shortest path between any two technologies in the network. Network density 0.015 Ratio of present edges to the maximum possible edges. Clustering co-efficient 0.912 The degree to which technologies in the network tend to cluster together. Average path length 2.066 The mean of shortest-path distance between all pairs of nodes. Average weighted degree 23.041 The average sum of the weights of edges connected to a node. Girvan-Newman modularity 0.44 A measure of the strength of division of a network into communities. Louvain modularity 0.395 A measure of the strength of division of a network into communities. III. R ESULTS A. Performance Evaluation of RATE and BERT To evaluate the performance of the RATE pipeline, three gold-standard labeled lists were created by three domain experts who independently reviewed 70 randomly selected papers from the primary corpus. For each of these 70 papers, the experts manually identified technologies based on the com- bined title, abstract, and author keywords, this identification and selection of technologies were based on the same defi- nitions presented to the RATE. After discussing the potential terms indicating technologies, a single gold standard list based on the previous three were created. The technologies extracted by RATE and BERT for these 70 papers were then compared against the gold-standard list to identify True Positives (TP), False Positives (FP), and False Negatives (FN) of both models. Consequently, precision, recall, and F1-score were calculated for RATE and BERT. Calculated precision, recall, and F1-score for BERT were 39.16%, 85.50%, and 53.73% respectively. While the results for RATE were significantly superior with 94.26% precision, 88.47% recall, and 91.27% F1-score. RATE’s superior F1- score highlights its effectiveness in balancing high precision with