related potential eeg based brain computer interfaces friend enginemultimodal vr/nfbregion of interestrtfmri nfb electroencephalography neural network random forest classifier multimodal stimulation agent robot brain imaging lcd monitor human computer interface virtual therapist immersive virtual environments virtual reality serious virtual reality exposure therapy theta to beta ratio electroencephalography data analysis markers low frequency rtms motor imagery training noninvasive bcis neural interfaces time frequency features electroencephalography recorderintention detection hybrid cognitive training control system computational model vr/ar freehand interaction virtual reality flight simulation 3d virtual reality Fig. 3. Representation of core technologies in Girvan-Newman communities B. Interpretation of Thematic Clusters in the BCI-XR Land- scape The community detection analysis using the Girvan- Newman algorithm identified several key thematic clusters within the BCI-XR technology network (Fig 3). The most prominent cluster, was termed ” VR-EEG Brain-Computer In- terfaces and Neuro-rehabilitation Technologies ”, shows the strong synergy between BCI, VR, and EEG related technolo- gies. The significant presence of terms such as Rehabilitation technology, Exoskeletons, wheelchairs, motor priming, and Neurofeedback as distinct nodes within this core cluster high- lights the primary application of integrated BCI-VR systems in neuro-rehabilitation. This finding, particularly the emphasis on VR over AR in medical and rehabilitation contexts, aligns with previous bibliometric analyses, such as Yeung et al. [4]. Furthermore, the inclusion of feature extraction, ML, and deep learning as significant nodes within this cluster points to the critical role of these computational methods in analyzing neural data and enabling BCI functionality within these rehabilitative applications. A second distinct cluster, labeled ” Portable AR-SSVEP Brain-Computer Interfaces for Real-Time Hands-Free Control”, centers around AR. This clus- ter’s co-occurrence with technologies like portable systems, wearable devices, real-time processing, and hands-free control suggests a different application focus for BCI-AR integration compared to BCI-VR. The relative separation of AR from the main rehabilitation-focused cluster in