first step is represented in the Equation 1: D = {datai}N i=1 (1) where datai represents individual pieces of information and N is the total number of data items extracted. Next, we surveyed students to gather insights on the most common questions they encounter. The survey results were recorded and analyzed to identify patterns and frequently asked questions. Step 2: In the second stage, we collected the questions from students through two primary approaches to ensure comprehensive coverage of frequently asked questions: 1) Student Surveys: We utilized data collected from 60 students to refine and enhance the quality of the doc- uments, ensuring they accurately reflected the most relevant and practical information based on real student experiences and inquiries. We asked students to fill out a form regarding the most frequent questions they en- counter at the university. The form included open-ended sections where students could describe the challenges they face when navigating university resources. From the responses, we identified a correspondence corpus of frequently asked questions that were representative of common student concerns from either the university website or the relevant documents in the different chan- nels. 2University of Isfahan website: https://ui.ac.ir 2) Web Scraping: In addition to the student surveys, we scraped the official Isfahan University website for relevant information. This included extracting questions derived from useful content such as department-specific pages, contact information (e.g., email addresses of pro- fessors), course descriptions, and administrative proce- dures. These questions were designed to complement the student-provided data and fill in any gaps in coverage. The collected data from these two sources forms the initial set of questions, denoted as Qstudent. This step is formulated in Equation 2: Qstudent = {questionj}M j=1 (2) where questionj represents each individual question and M is the total number of questions collected. where questionj represents