as casual conversations or collaborative environments, where overt fact-checking would be impractical or socially awkward. 4Chitralekha Gupta, Hanjun Wu, Praveen Sasikumar, Shreyas Sridhar, Priambudi Bagaskara, and Suranga Nanayakkara 3.2 System Design Our proof-of-concept system consists of the following components, as shown in Figure 2: • Wearable Interface: Factually integrated into common wearable device (e.g. smartwatch). Vibrotactile feedback is used to indicate when a statement is flagged as potentially false, ensuring subtle and socially acceptable interactions. • Fact-Checking Backend: The system leverages a combination of large language models (LLMs) and web-based resources to evaluate the truthfulness of statements in real time. While the current implementation uses state- of-the-art fact-checking tools as a proof of concept, this mechanism can be replaced with more sophisticated models as they become available. • Real-Time Processing: Audio input is transcribed and analyzed for potentially false claims. If flagged, Factually sends a vibration alert to the wearable device. Users can then access additional context about the flagged statement through a connected mobile application, if desired. 3.3 Proof-of-concept Scenarios To demonstrate the potential of Factually, we developed three proof-of-concept scenarios (Figure 3)2. 3.3.1 Scenario 1: Health Misinformation. In this scenario, we assess the role of Factually in detecting health-related misinformation in a live conversation. This scenario has two granddaughters, Emma and Grace, who are taking out the rubbish while discussing their grandmother’s medication. Emma asks Grace if she has given their grandmother Neurontin. Grace responds that she hasn’t and questions the purpose of the medication. Emma confidently states that it is used to lower blood pressure. At this point, Factually vibrates, alerting the users to a potential error. The device provides a tactile cue, prompting the wearer to check the accompanying feedback: Neurontin is a medication used to help manage epileptic seizures. With this information, Grace points out