RA VEN: Multitask Retrieval Augmented Vision-Language Learning Varun Nagaraj Rao1*, Siddharth Choudhary 2, Aditya Deshpande 3†, Ravi Kumar Satzoda 2, Srikar Appalaraju2‡ 1Princeton University, 2AWS AI Labs, 3Apple Abstract The scaling of large language models to encode all the world’s knowledge in model parame- ters is unsustainable and has exacerbated re- source barriers. Retrieval-Augmented Genera- tion (RAG) presents a potential solution, yet its application to vision-language models (VLMs) is underexplored. Existing methods focus on models designed for single tasks. Furthermore, they’re limited by the need for resource inten- sive pretraining, additional parameter require- ments, unaddressed modality prioritization and lack of clear benefit over non-retrieval base- lines. This paper introduces RA VEN, a multi- task retrieval augmented VLM framework that enhances base VLMs through efficient, task- specific fine-tuning. By integrating retrieval augmented samples without the need for addi- tional retrieval-specific parameters, we show that the model acquires retrieval properties that are effective across multiple tasks. Our re- sults and extensive ablations across retrieved modalities for the image captioning and VQA tasks indicate significant performance improve- ments compared to non retrieved baselines – +1 CIDEr on MSCOCO, +4 CIDEr on NoCaps, and nearly a +3% accuracy on specific VQA question types. This underscores the efficacy of applying RAG approaches to VLMs, marking a stride toward more efficient and accessible multimodal learning. 1 Introduction The rapid growth in model sizes in NLP, as high- lighted by OpenAI’s LLM progression from GPT- 2’s 1.5 billion parameters (Radford et al., 2019) to GPT-3’s 175 billion (Brown et al., 2020), and further to over a trillion in GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023), is a source of increasing concern. This trend re- quires more data and computational power, lead- *Work conducted during an internship at Amazon. †Work done while at Amazon. ‡Correspondence to: srikara@amazon.com ing to higher carbon emissions