For instance, cap- tions for an elephant image focus on the foreground elephant, neglecting details about the background mountains and forest. Similarly, captions for a cake image lack information about the cake lifter in the corner. Figure 4: Examples where RA VEN fails in generating the correct answer. Multimodal Query Embedding. Considering scenarios where retrieved context may lack speci- ficity, we propose the joint use of image and text modalities as input to the retriever, when available. Figure 5 demonstrates an example where creating a multimodal query embedding by averaging im- age and text embeddings separately results in rel- evant captions addressing both the image and the question. Comprehensive exploration of scenarios where specific entity properties lack corresponding captions is deferred to future work. 6 Conclusion and Future Work To address escalating model size and computa- tional demands, we propose a retrieval augmen- tation framework, an alternative to storing ex- tensive world knowledge within model param- eters. Our contributions introduce a multitask, multimodal retrieval-augmented vision-language model, demonstrating adaptability across multi- Figure 5: An example depicting the benefits of using a multimodal query embedding (average of image and question embedding). This results in the retrieval of captions relevant to both the image and question. ple tasks through computationally efficient task- specific fine-tuning. Utilizing concatenated multi- modal retrieval-augmented samples from an exter- nal non-overlapping memory, without additional trainable parameters, our single model acquires robust retrieval properties. This showcases bene- fits in both captioning and VQA tasks using a uni- fied approach. Notably, extensive ablations across text, image, and image-text modalities, systemat- ically compared against non-retrieved baselines, provide valuable insights. Our findings underscore that retrieval augmentation, particularly with text in image-to-text tasks, optimally enhances perfor- mance, especially in the zero-shot setting. Future directions involve refining sampling strategies for enhanced diversity, exploring alterna- tive