captioning and VQA tasks using a uni- fied approach. Notably, extensive ablations across text, image, and image-text modalities, systemat- ically compared against non-retrieved baselines, provide valuable insights. Our findings underscore that retrieval augmentation, particularly with text in image-to-text tasks, optimally enhances perfor- mance, especially in the zero-shot setting. Future directions involve refining sampling strategies for enhanced diversity, exploring alterna- tive image fusion approaches, and investigating a mixture of experts to afford the model flexibility in leveraging retrieved context. Additionally, we propose extending retrieval over a composite index (image+text) to further optimize performance. 7 Limitations We use a relatively small model to demonstrate performance on 2 tasks. While we acknowledge the demonstrating our approach on more tasks and larger models would be beneficial, we defer this to future work due to compute and financial con- straints. RA VEN’s current capability to handle di- verse tasks like image captioning and VQA within a single model framework already stands as a signifi- cant advancement; and is sufficient to demonstrate the benefit of our framework. References Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jeff Donahue, Pauline Luc, Antoine Miech, Iain Barr, Yana Hasson, Karel Lenc, Arthur Mensch, Katherine Millican, Malcolm Reynolds, et al. 2022. Flamingo: a visual language model for few-shot learning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:23716–23736. Srikar Appalaraju, Bhavan Jasani, Bhargava Urala Kota, Yusheng Xie, and R. Manmatha. 2021. Docformer: End-to-end transformer for document understand- ing. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), pages 993– 1003. Srikar Appalaraju, Peng Tang, Qi Dong, Nishant Sankaran, Yichu Zhou, and R. Manmatha. 2024. Docformerv2: Local features for document under- standing. AAAI, abs/2306.01733. Anas Awadalla, Irena Gao, Josh Gardner, Jack Hes- sel, Yusuf Hanafy, Wanrong Zhu, Kalyani Marathe, Yonatan Bitton, Samir Gadre, Shiori Sagawa, Je- nia Jitsev, Simon Kornblith, Pang Wei Koh, Gabriel Ilharco, Mitchell Wortsman,