on the evaluation, the Large Language Model GPT -3.5-turbo achieved the highest ROUGE -1 score, 0.364. The transformer model comes in second place and spaCy is at the last position. Finally, a graphical user interface is created for the best system based on the large language model. Index Terms —T5, SpaCy, Large Language Model, GPT, ROUGE, Literature Review, Natural Language Processing, Retrieval-augmented generation. I. INTRODUCTION Literature reviews have gained considerable importance for scholars. It provides researchers with a comprehensive overview of previous findings in a specific field and assists scholars in identifying gaps in past understandings. It helps to conduct future research and informs researchers of areas where they can provide significant input. However, conducting liter - ature reviews can be incredibly cumbersome because there’s so much to read. Due to the vast volume of research articles being released, reviewing all related studies and extracting relevant information can be a time -consuming, tedious, and error-prone task. Due to these difficulties, there has been an increasing interest in automating the process of literature reviews [1]. Automated systems can use natural lan guage processing techniques and machine learning algorithms to analyze extensive amounts of text, extract relevant details, and create structured summaries [2]. The primary objective of this research is to develop a system that can automatically generate the literature review segment of a research paper by using only the PDF files of the related papers as input. Several Natural Language Processing tech - niques such as the Frequency -based approach, Transformer - based a pproach, and Large Language Model -based approach are implemented and compared to find the best procedure. The SciTLDR dataset [3] is selected for this research work. The first procedure uses the frequency-based approach. The library named spaCy [4] is utilized here. The second procedure uses the transformer-based