much relevant research as feasible, involving looking through reference lists, scouring internet databases, and reviewing published materials. Screening reduces the search scope by limiting the collection to only the papers pertinent to a particular review, aiming to highlight important findings and facts that could influence policy. Mapping is used to comprehend research activity in a particular area, involve stakeholders, and define priorities concerning the review emphasis. Synthesizing integrates data from numerous sources and provides an overview of the outcomes. The formulation of research questions, reporting phase, and peer review are some steps that are also discussed for the composition of systematic literature reviews. Peer-reviewed publications are growing exponentially with the rapid development of science. Therefore, Yuan et al. [7] have explored the use of machine learning techniques, natural language generation, multi -document summarization, and multi-objective optimization for automating scientific re - viewing. They have discussed the generation of comprehensive reviews and noted the limitations of constructive feedback compared to human -written reviews. The models used in this research are not yet fully capable of automating Literature Reviews and they require human reviewers. A comprehensive analysis of existing tools for systematic literature reviews was done by Karakan et al. [8]. They have explored the potential for automation in various phases of the review process, highlighting the need for a holistic tool de- sign to address researchers’ challenges effectively. They have discussed two methodologies to accomplish their research: Rapid Review and Semi-Structured Interviews. Rapid Review emphasizes decision-making procedures for resolving issues, difficulties, and challenges that software engineers encounter in their daily work. Semi-structured interviews are used to explore researchers’ experiences, challenges, strategies, strengths, weaknesses of Systematic Literature Review tools, and requirements for effective support in software engineering. Jaspers et al. [9] focused on the use of machine learning techniques for automation of