forest. Since the piggy has not gone to the forest yet, it would be unfit to play a sound here. More examples are displayed in Table 1. Further analysis reveals that over 40% triggers suggested by the retrieved results should not be added with sound effects. Such observation indicates that accepting the results returned by retrieval-based methods indiscriminately leads to high false positives. Therefore, in this paper, we introduce a semantic inference model to discriminate the necessity of adding sound effects based on information from the context. As illustrated by Table 1, such a model needs to comprehend the context. Based on the observations in an annotated dataset from 1https://offers.adobe.com/en/na/audition/offers/audition_dlc/AdobeAuditionDLCSFX.html 2https://freesound.org/browse/tags/ 3http://soundbible.com/free-sound-effects-1.html Item Statistic Number of stories annotated 1393 Number of candidate triggers 8700 Number of confident candidate triggers 6427 Average number of candidate triggers 6.25 Average number of confident candidate triggers 4.61 Std of candidate triggers 6.20 Std of confident candidate triggers 4.70 Table 2: Overall statistics of the annotation. crowdsourcing, we introduce several useful features and attest their importance with ablation experiments. We also propose to use additional rules to control the trade-off between precision and recall. All these methods are evaluated on another crowdsourced dataset which contains candidate sentences and judgments from three labelers. The overall results show that our model, based on the semantic information, is effective in improving the robustness of adding sound effects. Further ablation results provide valuable insights on designing an efficient algorithm for this task. 2 PROBLEM FORMULATION Although we understand that the story text is sometimes connected to the sound, we do not precisely know when and how this con- nection happens. To better understand the elemental relationship between story and sound, we preliminarily annotate around 1300 radio stories, which are crawled from the web and with general public copyrights. During