From Text to Sound: A Preliminary Study on Retrieving Sound Effects to Radio Stories Songwei Ge∗ songweig@cs.cmu.edu Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Curtis Xuan curtisxuan@ucla.edu University of California, Los Angeles Los Angeles, California Ruihua Song song.ruihua@microsoft.com Microsoft XiaoIce Bejing, China Chao Zou chazou@microsoft.com Microsoft XiaoIce Bejing, China Wei Liu wiliu@microsoft.com Microsoft XiaoIce Bejing, China Jin Zhou whitezj@vip.sina.com Beijing Film Academy Bejing, China ABSTRACT Sound effects play an essential role in producing high-quality ra- dio stories but require enormous labor cost to add. In this paper, we address the problem of automatically adding sound effects to radio stories with a retrieval-based model. However, directly imple- menting a tag-based retrieval model leads to high false positives due to the ambiguity of story contents. To solve this problem, we introduce a retrieval-based framework hybridized with a semantic inference model which helps to achieve robust retrieval results. Our model relies on fine-designed features extracted from the context of candidate triggers. We collect two story dubbing datasets through crowdsourcing to analyze the setting of adding sound effects and to train and test our proposed methods. We further discuss the importance of each feature and introduce several heuristic rules for the trade-off between precision and recall. Together with the text-to-speech technology, our results reveal a promising automatic pipeline on producing high-quality radio stories. KEYWORDS cross-modal retrieval; robust retrieval; radio story; sound effect. ACM Reference Format: Songwei Ge, Curtis Xuan, Ruihua Song, Chao Zou, Wei Liu, and Jin Zhou. 2019. From Text to Sound: A Preliminary Study on Retrieving Sound Effects to Radio Stories. In 42nd Int’l ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Devel- opment in Information Retrieval (SIGIR ’19), July 21–25, 2019, Paris, France. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 4 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3331184.3331274 1 INTRODUCTION Listening to stories is far more enjoyable when the listener can immerse