the document retrieval from the initial candidates of BM25 by 11.4% and 12.0% on NDCG@20, respec- tively. Such results demonstrate the potential of designing semantics-oriented GNNs for textual reasoning tasks such as classiﬁcation, retrieval, etc. 3.4 Stability and Eﬃciency We further examine the stability and eﬃciency of diﬀerent models across runs. As is shown in Fig. 2(a), GIN and GAT are less consistent, indicating the diﬃculty in training over-complex models. The training eﬃciency in Fig. 2(b) shows that GIN can hardly improve during training, while GAT ﬂuctuates a lot and suﬀers from overﬁtting. In contrast, our proposed semantics-oriented functions perform more stable in Fig. 2(a), and improve eﬃciently during training in Fig. 2(b), demonstrating their abilities to model the concepts and interactions important for the retrieval task. Among the three graph functions, E-Pool and RW-Pool are consistently better than N-Pool, revealing the utility of simple graph structures. Moreover, RW-Pool converges slower but achieves better and more stable results in the end, indicating the potential advantage of higher-order interactions. 4 Conclusion In this paper, we investigate how can GNNs help document retrieval through a case study. Concept maps with rich semantics are generated from unstructured texts with constituency parsing. Two types of GNNs, structure-oriented complex models and our proposed semantics-oriented graph functions are experimented and the latter achieves consistently better and stable results, demonstrating the importance of semantic units as well as their simple interactions in GNN design for textual reasoning tasks like retrieval. In the future, more textual datasets such as news, journalism and downstream tasks can be included for validation. Other types of semantics-oriented graph functions can also be designed based on our permutation-invariant schema, such as graphlet based-pooling. Graph Neural Networks for Document Retrieval 7 References 1. Baeza-Yates, R., Ribeiro-Neto, B., et al.: Modern information retrieval, vol. 463