relevant documents are pulled towards the query representation, whereas those of the irrelevant ones are pushed away. For retrieval in the testing phrase, documents are ranked according to the learned relevance score S(G| Q). Graph Neural Networks for Document Retrieval 3 2.2 Concept Maps and Their Generation Concept map generation, which aims to distill structured information hidden un- der unstructured text and represent it with a graph, has been studied extensively in literature [3,39,40,45]. Since entities and events often convey rich semantics, they are widely used to represent core information of documents [5,18,21]. How- ever, according to our pilot trials, existing concept map construction methods based on name entity recognition (NER) or relation extraction (RE) often suﬀer from limited nodes and sparse edges. Moreover, these techniques rely on signiﬁ- cant amounts of training data and predeﬁned entities and relation types, which restricts the semantic richness of the generated concept maps [34]. To increase node/edge coverage, we propose to identify entities and events by POS-tagging and constituency parsing [23]. Compared to concept maps de- rived from NER or RE, our graphs can identify more suﬃcient phrases as nodes and connect them with denser edges, since pos-tagging and parsing are robust to domain shift [26,43]. The identiﬁed phrases are ﬁltered via articles removing and lemmas replacing, and then merged by the same mentions. To capture the interactions (edges in graphs) among extracted nodes, we follow the common practice in phrase graph construction [17, 27, 31] that uses the sliding window technique to capture node co-occurrence. The window size is selected through grid search. Our proposed constituency parsing approach for concept map gener- ation alleviates the limited vocabulary problem of existing NER-based methods, thus bolstering the semantic richness of the concept maps for retrieval. 2.3 GNN-based Concept Map Representation Learning Structure-oriented complex GNNs