role of retrieval in this task, show- ing that retrieval quality is more important for the generator than finding exact lexical matches of the facets to be generated. We query facets (ground truth) facets (generated) network drive set up, remove windows 7, windows 8, windows 10 leiden what time is it, zip code, things to do, weather leiden thrombophilia penny big bang theory cast, quotes dvd , cast,episodes pemetrexed side effects, chemotherapy injection, mechanism of action, package insert side effects,cost sickle cell anemia diagnosis, causes, diet, symptom, treatment in children, in adults consumer price index U.S., india, japan chart, calculator Table 8: Qualitative analysis. Generated facets with an aligned question generator (train. evidence: Contr-FT|Q,F) in an open domain setting (test evidence: Contr-FT|Q). Underlined indicate irrelevant facets, and boldfaced indicate high-quality facets outside of the ground truth. showed that current datasets suffer from a lack of grounding be- tween ground truth facets and evidence documents, which has serious implications.Specifically, it hinders their ability of models to ask Corpus-informed questions, making them prone to "halluci- nations" (ie. ignoring evidence documents while generating facets), which can severely harm user experience. Lastly, we attempt to construct an evidence pool that contains the ground truth facets by inducing novelty in the retriever. We experiment with two novelty methods, (i) 𝑀𝑀𝑅 and (ii) training the retriever with knowledge distillation, but we conclude that doing so remains a challenge. Our analysis sheds light in those challenges and highlights the gap between ground truth facets and those present in existing ranking corpora, calling for the need of datasets that can support generating Corpus-Informed clarifica- tions. Future work should focus in developing appropriate train and test collections that better reflect the objective of creating Corpus-Informed Clarifying Questions. Novelty and diversity of the evidence pool remains important for generating good