research question ishow can we train an end-to-end sys- tem that explicitly models the retrieval corpus and generates Corpus- informed clarifying questions? Specifically, we aim to answer the following research questions: RQ1 Can we generate Clarifying Questions end-to-end with Re- trieval Augmented Generation models? RQ2 What is the optimal evidence set for training and evaluating that support Corpus-informed Retrieval-Augmented Genera- tors of clarifying questions? RQ3 How can we enhance the evidence set at test time to assist clarifying question generation? In particular, we make the following contributions to the research of asking clarifying questions: (a) we define the desired properties of clarifying questions to be tightly dependent on both user queries, as well as documents retrieved for those queries; (b) to this end we develop a dataset that allows for training faithful and adaptive clarifying question models; (c) we propose using Retrieval Aug- mented Generation for generating clarifying questions end-to-end and show that Fusion-in-Decoder is an effective approach on this task, and (d) we investigate how to enhance search results for the purpose of better informing the generation of clarifying questions. 2 RELATED WORK We first discuss datasets used in clarifying question generation and evaluation (Section 2.1), followed by methods for generating clarifying questions with a focus on web search (Section 2.2). 2.1 Clarifying question datasets Recent work on clarifying questions differs on several aspects, in- cluding the type of questions ask, the way presented to the user, and the evaluation methodology for automatic question generation. Below we discuss several types of clarifying questions datasets. Clarifying Questions for Web Seach were first introduced in Qulac [2], an open-domain information-seeking conversational search dataset. This work builds upon faceted or ambiguous queries from the TREC Web Track dataset [7, 8]. The authors crowd-sourced clarifying questions to be asked from a search system