Corpus-informed Retrieval Augmented Generation of Clarifying Questions Antonios Minas Krasakis a.m.krasakis@uva.nl University of Amsterdam The Netherlands Andrew Yates a.c.yates@uva.nl University of Amsterdam The Netherlands Evangelos Kanoulas e.kanoulas@uva.nl University of Amsterdam The Netherlands ABSTRACT This study aims to develop models that generate corpus informed clarifying questions for web search, in a way that ensures the ques- tions align with the available information in the retrieval corpus. We demonstrate the effectiveness of Retrieval Augmented Language Models (RAG) in this process, emphasising their ability to (i) jointly model the user query and retrieval corpus to pinpoint the uncer- tainty and ask for clarifications end-to-end and (ii) model more evidence documents, which can be used towards increasing the breadth of the questions asked. However, we observe that in cur- rent datasets search intents are largely unsupported by the corpus, which is problematic both for training and evaluation. This causes question generation models to “hallucinate”, ie. suggest intents that are not in the corpus, which can have detrimental effects in perfor- mance. To address this, we propose dataset augmentation methods that align the ground truth clarifications with the retrieval corpus. Additionally, we explore techniques to enhance the relevance of the evidence pool during inference, but find that identifying ground truth intents within the corpus remains challenging. Our analysis suggests that this challenge is partly due to the bias of current datasets towards clarification taxonomies and calls for data that can support generating corpus-informed clarifications. 1 INTRODUCTION Open-domain search and Question Answering (QA) systems make the best effort to respond to any user’s question or query. Re- cent work attempts to quantify the uncertainty in the question- answering models in order to defer from answering a question they are uncertain about [6, 38]. In a parallel line of research, lim- ited work in open-domain conversational and