that balance granularity and effectiveness in graph-based RAG. Document expansion techniques, such as Doc2Query (Nogueira et al., 2019) for generating queries from documents and Doc2Query-- (Gospodinov et al., 2023) for filtering irrelevant queries, pro- arXiv:2509.21237v1 [cs.CL] 25 Sep 2025 Figure 1: Illustration of (a) coarse-grained document-level graphs, (b) fine-grained entity-level graphs, and (c) controllable-grained query-centric graphs for RAG. vide a query-centric expansion paradigm. We argue that integrating Doc2Query-generated queries with graphs enables the construction of a controllable query-centric graph that lies between fine- grained entity-level and coarse-grained document-level representations. To overcome the above mentioned granularity dilemma, we propose Query-Centric Graph Retrieval-Augmented Generation (QCG-RAG), a framework that tailors graph construction and retrieval to the granularity of queries. QCG-RAG introduces a query-centric graph (QCG), constructed with Doc2Query and Doc2Query-- techniques to generate query-guided nodes and edges, yielding indexing graphs with controllable granularity. On top of this graph, we design a multi-hop retrieval & generation mechanism that efficiently selects relevant chunks via generated queries, enabling precise reasoning across dispersed evidence. Figure 1 illustrates (a) coarse-grained document-level graphs, (b) fine-grained entity-level graphs, and (c) controllable-grained query-centric graphs for RAG. The main contributions of this paper are threefold: •Query-Centric Graph Construction.We present the first query-driven, granularity-controllable graph construction framework for RAG, which improves graph quality and preserves interpretability via generated queries. •Query-Centric Retrieval & Generation Mechanism.We develop an effective multi-hop retrieval process on QCG, which enables accurate retrieval of relevant text chunks for complex queries. •Comprehensive Evaluation.We conduct experiments demonstrating that QCG-RAG consistently outperforms prior chunk-based and graph-based RAG methods in question answering accuracy. 2 RELATEDWORK Chunk-based RAG.Conventional chunk-based RAG frameworks, such as Naive RAG (Gao et al., 2023), typically follow a four-step pipeline: (1) Chunking: documents are segmented into fixed-length units using sliding windows or semantic boundary detection to balance granularity and context; (2)