EVOR: Evolving Retrieval for Code Generation Hongjin Su1, Shuyang Jiang2, Yuhang Lai2, Haoyuan Wu1, Boao Shi1, Che Liu1, Qian Liu3, Tao Yu1, 1The University of Hong Kong, 2Fudan University, 3Sea AI Lab, Correspondence: hjsu@cs.hku.hk Abstract Recently the retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has been successfully applied in code generation. However, existing pipelines for retrieval-augmented code generation (RACG) employ static knowledge bases with a single source, limiting the adaptation capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) to domains they have insufficient knowledge of. In this work, we develop a novel pipeline, EVOR, that employs the synchronous evolution of both queries and diverse knowledge bases. On two realistic settings where the external knowledge is required to solve code generation tasks, we compile four new datasets associated with fre- quently updated libraries and long-tail program- ming languages, named EVOR-BENCH . Ex- tensive experiments demonstrate that EVOR achieves two to four times of execution accu- racy compared to other methods such as Reflex- ion (Shinn et al., 2024), DocPrompting (Zhou et al., 2023), etc. We demonstrate that EVOR is flexible and can be easily combined with them to achieve further improvement. Further analysis reveals that EVOR benefits from the synchronous evolution of queries and docu- ments and the diverse information sources in the knowledge base. We hope that our studies will inspire more insights into the design of advanced RACG pipelines in future research. Our model, code, and data are available at https://arks-codegen.github.io. 1 Introduction The retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) paradigm has raised significant attention due to its efficiency in adapting large language models (LLMs) without training (Guu et al., 2020; Karpukhin et al., 2020; Izacard et al., 2023; Borgeaud et al., 2022; Asai et al., 2023). Recent research has demonstrated its successful applications in code generation. They implement the retrieval-augmented code generation (RACG) Write ponyc code to