facts, we retrieve 1,131 facts from all sentences and then converge to 141 facts that directly expand from the initial set. The availability of domain knowledge in the form of explicit facts allows us to employ these heuristics and thus enable RAG. The traceability of LLM responses to explicit facts and then to actual patents could ensure the trustworthiness of future AI systems to be deployed for engineering design applications (Díaz-Rodríguez et al., 2023). Figure 6: A portion of 141 facts constituting specific knowledge of the airflow noise issue fan systems. The entire knowledge graph with interaction could be viewed externally. 5. Conclusions In this paper, we proposed a method to populate explicit facts of the form – head entity :: relationship :: tail entity from sentences in patented artefact descriptions. The method is primarily intended to support RAG for LLMs that are expected to be the governing platforms for future engineering design applications, especially those with knowledge-intensive tasks. o Prior to developing this method, we created a comprehensive dataset of facts identified from 44,227 sentences that are stratified according to the CPC codes and patent document section. The dataset is our primary contribution. o The method, which is the secondary contribution, is based on token-classification models fine-tuned on existing language models such as ALBERT, roBERTa, DistilBERT etc., that significantly outperform other approaches such as sequence-to-sequence and link prediction. o We apply the method to 4,870 patent documents in the domain of fan-systems. We demonstrated retrieval of generalisable and contextualised design knowledge and how such knowledge can guide LLMs to generate technical and cohesive responses. Such an approach and the associated infrastructure is our tertiary contribution. The method shall address various limitations and consider future research directions as well. We would build knowledge bases and interfaces to conduct experimental studies