Retrieval Augmented Generation using Engineering Design Knowledge L. Siddharth1, Jianxi Luo2 1Engineering Product Development, Singapore University of Technology and Design, Singapore 2Department of Systems Engineering, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Abstract Aiming to support Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) in the design process, we present a method to identify explicit, engineering design facts – {head entity :: relationship :: tail entity} from patented artefact descriptions. Given a sentence with a pair of entities (based on noun phrases) marked in a unique manner, our method extracts the relationship that is explicitly communicated in the sentence. For this task, we create a dataset of 375,084 examples and fine-tune language models for relation identification (token classification) and elicitation (sequence-to-sequence). The token classification approach achieves up to 99.7% accuracy. Upon applying the method to a domain of 4,870 fan system patents, we populate a knowledge base of over 2.93 million facts. Using this knowledge base, we demonstrate how Large Language Models (LLMs) are guided by explicit facts to synthesise knowledge and generate technical and cohesive responses when sought out for knowledge retrieval tasks in the design process. Keywords: Knowledge Graphs; Retrieval-Augmented Generation; Large-Language Models; Engineering Design Knowledge; Patent Documents; Graph Neural Networks. 1. Introduction 1.1. Motivation. Large-Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT, Llama, Mistral, Falcon etc., are increasingly being adopted for applications like chatbots, writing assistants, data curators etc. Despite growing popularity, LLMs are less suited for knowledge-intensive tasks in engineering design, e.g., case-based reasoning (Qin et al., 2018; Siddharth et al., 2020). These tasks are typically supported by designated or hand-built knowledge sources like handbooks, patents, technical reports etc., (Quintana-Amate et al., 2015; Siddharth et al., 2022b). For LLMs to generate responses within the context of such sources, it is necessary to devise a method to extract engineering design knowledge from these.