entity and relation extraction. Trappey et al. (2014) use TF-IDF values to extract keyphrases from patent documents and research articles concerning dental implants. They (2014, p. 158) build a domain ontology by linking these using relationships such as “type of”, “consist of”, “the same as”, “has shape of” etc. Yang et al. (2018) compile 114,793 reports pertaining to the verification of digital pre-assembly of vehicle components to extract meaningful n-grams (e.g., brake pad) and associate these using relationships such as “is A” and “is Same To”. To aid in biologically inspired design, Chen et al. (2021) obtain sentences from the AskNature database and tie syntactic dependencies (e.g., nsubj, dobj, nsubjpass) to constructs such as structure, function, and structure-function. Jang et al. (2021) use syntactic dependencies and BERT-based similarities to form a network of nouns and verbs B60 patents. Dimassi et al. (2021) propose HERMES ontology for 4D printing that involves relationships such as “is A”, “Is Composed Of”, “has Spatial Relation”, “has”, “is Manufactured By” etc. Fatfouta and le Cardinal (2021) propose an ontology for car crash simulation using relationships such as “has”, “solves”, “belongs to” etc. Sun et al. (2022) populate a design knowledge graph from patents using rules applied to subject-verb-object triples obtained through dependency parsing. To aid fault- detection in additive manufacturing, by searching relevant articles, Wang and Cheung (2023) populate a domain knowledge graph of 127 facts constituted by the relationships “Influence Positive”, “Influence Negative”, “Is Composed Of”, “Result In” etc., and feed into a graph convolutional network to discover new edges to inform defects. Knowledge extraction in engineering design literature has largely been ontological, drawing from the ideologies of typical knowledge extraction in core NLP literature. Scholars in engineering design attempt to approximate a domain using a finite set of relationships. This approach might be