Composed Of”, “Result In” etc., and feed into a graph convolutional network to discover new edges to inform defects. Knowledge extraction in engineering design literature has largely been ontological, drawing from the ideologies of typical knowledge extraction in core NLP literature. Scholars in engineering design attempt to approximate a domain using a finite set of relationships. This approach might be meaningful in common-sense knowledge extraction, where relationships like “near”, “family” are sufficient to overview a large body of information populated on the internet. The common-sense knowledge graphs that result from such approximations appear to serve well for keyword search and recommendation systems (Chang et al., 2023; Feng et al., 2021). Engineering design text includes artefact descriptions and various aspects thereof. These descriptions mainly communicate the constituents of the artefacts and the structural and behavioural relationships among these (Chandrasekaran, 2005; Siddharth et al., 2018). Such relationships could range from simple ones like “comprise” to complex ones like “positioned to deviate from”. The above-reviewed efforts tend to approximate these relationships into a finite set of alternatives as it is common in knowledge engineering literature. Our work departs from this notion and proposes a method to identify explicit facts in a sentence. Engineering design scholars attempt to extract knowledge from documents like pre-assembly verification and simulation reports that are highly contextualised to an organisation or an artefact. Since our work is not focused on a particular domain, we develop the method to extract knowledge from patent documents that provide standard artefact descriptions for over 8 million artefacts granted by USPTO as of 2024. In our earlier work, we attempted to identify facts from patent claims using a simple rule-based approach (Siddharth et al., 2021). In this paper, we report an advanced, data-driven approach to populate facts from entire descriptions (not just claims). 3.