YouTube3, we manually identify engineering design facts from over 50,000 sentences by adopting several heuristics tailored to patent documents that are standard artefact descriptions. o Upon processing the facts thus identified, we provide an open-source dataset of 375,084 training examples (187,200 positive, 187,884 negative) that is accessible on Hugging Face4. o For the dataset as above, we also provide the training infrastructure on Zenodo5 that includes Python notebooks and the dataset formatted according to token classification and Seq2Seq tasks. o We provide access to the best-performing model on Hugging Face6 and facilitate usage of the method using readable instructions and an example notebook on GitHub7. o Upon applying the method to a domain of fan system patents and populating an accessible knowledge base8, as explained in Section 4, we demonstrate Retrieval-Augmented Generation9 (RAG) using explicit domain facts. 2. Background 2.1. Knowledge Extraction Algorithms. Knowledge extraction is a family of algorithms that involve two major tasks with a piece of text. First, Named Entity Recognition (NER), where phrases (also denoted as span) are identified and classified into entities. Second, predicting a relationship between a pair of entities thus classified (Li et al., 2022). These tasks are trained on standard datasets like ACE10, W-NUT11, and OntoNotes12. ACE, for example, comprises tagged broadcast transcripts, and news data in multiple languages including English. The entity classes in ACE include Person, Organization, Location, Facility, Weapon, Vehicle and Geo-Political. The relationships include physical (e.g., near, part- whole), social (e.g., business, family), socio-physical (e.g., ownership), affiliations etc. NLP scholars and practitioners have proposed several generic algorithms for entity and relation extraction. Conventional relation extraction algorithms stem from syntactic dependencies between a pair of tokens or phrases, also denoted as subject-object pairs. For example, Sun and Grishman (2022) learn relations between entities using the lexical dependency paths. Due