3 most similar samples. Extracts were taken from three layers (initial, middle, final) of a WavLM-L model. Despite quality defects in the spoofed test samples, the system appeared to retrieve samples from the same speaker identities. This suggests the system might rely strongly on speaker-discriminative features, potentially providing an ap- proximate answer to the research Question 3. However, although Figure 6: Examples of retrieved samples ( click on the figure to hear the sound ). initial layer retrievals corresponded to the same speakers, middle and final layer results may differ in speaker identity. Our analysis implies that the shallower layers of the model may focus on timbral and quality-based features, whereas the deeper layers capture more abstract semantic information. Nevertheless, these explanations re- main brief and qualitative, lacking rigorous argumentation, which could be an interesting area for future exploration. In summary, the retrieved samples have the greatest similarity at the feature level, providing insights for the successful detection of the spoof- ing artifacts. After retrieval, a careful comparison of the retrieval results with the test sample will be a key factor in the performance improvement. 5 CONCLUSIONS In this work, we proposed a novel retrieval-augmented detection (RAD) framework that leverages retrieved samples to enhance deep- fake detection performance. We also extend the multi-fusion atten- tive classifier by integrating it with our proposed RAD framework. Extensive experiments demonstrate state-of-the-art results of the RAD framework on the ASVspoof 2021 DF dataset and competitive performance on the 2019 and 2021 LA datasets. The consistent im- provements achieved on multiple datasets highlight the potential of RAD as a new paradigm for DF detection. The ablation study re- veals RAD and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) share similar properties in improving detection performance. Additionally, the retrieved samples are usually from the same speaker, suggesting potential interpretability. In