to the latest retrieved knowledge base, without the need for frequent re- training to obtain the latest knowledge. Knowledge is input implicitly. The ability of previously trained models for knowledge acquisition is yet to be verified . Full training or retraining is needed for knowledge and data updates. External Knowledge External knowledge can be acquired through retraining . Data Processing Only large datasets of high quality can improve performance. Interpretability The results generated can be traced back to specific data sources, offering greater interpretability and traceability. Only similar samples can be traced, but it is difficult to interpret directly how it relates to the sample being examined. Works as a black box with very low interpretability . Computational Resources Relying only on one model's judgment. External Training Zero-shot learning , without external training. Latency Requirements Only the model inference process will have low latency. Hallucination/Detection Error Less likely to hallucinate because each generated result is based on retrieved evidence. Careful comparison and review of retrieved similar samples with the tested samples may reduce detection errors, but this needs to be verified . Relying on only one model may produce higher detection errors . Ethical and Privacy Issues Content in external databases may have ethical and privacy concerns. Initially requires full training for specific tasks with high quality data. Utilizing external resources, especially relevant or similar data from databases . Minimal data processing and manipulation is required. Database retrieval techniques are required for each generated or detection task, and external data sources require regular maintenance. These require additional computational resources. Data retrieval process leads to higher latency. The labels are fixed, credible, and free of ethical and privacy concerns. Figure 4: Properties of RAG, RAD, and full training/fine- tuning for detection. Red text represents the focused atten- tion, and green cells