voice conversion (VC) to mimic the timbre, prosody, and intonation of the speaker, can now generate audio perceptually indistinguishable from genuine recordings. However, the potential malicious use of such AI-synthesized speech has serious personal and societal im- plications, including disruption of automatic speaker verification (ASV) systems, propagating misinformation, and defaming repu- tations. As a result, the vulnerability of current audio-based com- munication systems to synthesized speech poses a serious threat. Therefore, the development of effective DF detection techniques is urgently needed to address this emerging risk for everyone of us. Recent advances in artificial intelligence generation content (AIGC) techniques, such as DF generation, however, have made detecting DFs increasingly challenging. In newly organized compe- titions, such as the ASVspoof 2021 [27], ADD 2022 [28], 2023 [29], even the state-of-the-art (SOTA) DF detection systems perform poorly, with an equal error rate (EER) of over 10% [ 30], making them impossible to detect properly, and unsuitable for commercial deployment. This suggests that the rapid development of DF gener- ation seems to have greatly outpaced the development of detection arXiv:2404.13892v2 [cs.SD] 23 Apr 2024 ICMR ’24, June 10–14, 2024, Phuket, Thailand Zuheng Kang et al. technologies – the traditional detection methods are far from in- adequate for identifying current out-of-domain [3] DF-generated samples. Building robust and reliable DF detection systems remains a critical issue for the research community that has not yet been fully resolved. Recent decades have witnessed the emergence of various frame- works for detecting DF audio. The predominant frameworks utilize a pipeline consisting of a front-end feature extractor and a back-end classifier (discussed in § 2.1). Early works relied on hand-crafted features for DF detection with some success, such as Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCC) [10], linear-frequency cepstral coef- ficients (LFCC) [5, 17, 24], CQT [16, 32], and F0 sub-band feature