DF detection should be a knowledge-intensive task that also relies on vast external knowledge. To explain this, let’s start with a story. In the identification of antique artifacts, fakes are often fabricated so realistically that it is difficult to determine their au- thenticity. Senior experts usually conduct a meticulous comparative analysis that includes material and textural attributes of many simi- lar artifacts. With so many subtle factors to consider, relying solely on one’s limited intelligence is likely to result in poor judgment. Similarly, relying only on a single model to detect deepfakes may be too challenging to make mistakes. Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) [8, 15] methodology pro- vides a nice example for solving the problem of knowledge-intensive tasks (discussed in § 2.2). The RAG resolved the limitation of the single model by combining a pre-trained large language model (LLM) with an information retrieval system over a large knowledge database. Fundamentally, the RAG framework leverages significant supplementary real-time updated additional interpretable knowl- edge (with rapidly changing, proprietary data sources) to augment the limitations of a single model’s knowledge, enabling it to provide a more reasoned answer. Complementary background information allows a single model to overcome its inherent knowledge gaps. Similarly, the retrieval-augmented-based approach could provide the same benefits for DF detection. When analyzing suspect au- dio, the model could query a retrieval system to find many similar reference audio segments. These retrieved results would provide additional references to inform the deepfake detection, such as typical artifacts for bonafide or synthetic spoofed examples. Then, the deepfake detector could integrate these retrieval results and the suspected audio into its decision process. This retrieval-augmented approach has several advantages. The model gains access to a much larger knowledge base beyond what can be encoded only in its model parameters. The retrieved results also provide supporting