the robustness of the response generation in their systems, especially in an oracle setting, as this setting estimates an upper bound for the system. Furthermore, there is an active field of study in- vestigating the training of retrieval augmented gen- eration systems where the retriever and the LLM are jointly trained (Lin et al., 2024). These sys- tems benefit from training by becoming more ro- bust against irrelevant contexts when generating the answer. However, the robustness against the query variations in the context of joint training is still underexplored. Our findings can be integrated into these training regimes to develop robustness- aware end-to-end systems that are stable against query variations. Lastly, as many methods of query disambigua- tion and expansion show, the query transformations help increase the performance of RAG systems while introducing extra computational overhead. Since these methods are greatly dependent on the initial query provided to the system and could be employed for different modules of the pipeline, we believe that our decoupling analysis could help practitioners identify the sensitive modules in their pipeline to employ these methods more efficiently for different perturbation types. Therefore, we rec- ommend using our provided analysis methodology to test the RAG system before employing query transformations steps into the pipeline. 7 Conclusion In this work, we highlight a key issue of the re- trieval augmented generation pipelines, namely their sensitivity to query variations. We perform extensive experiments on three question answering datasets and twelve RAG pipelines which span four retrievers and three LLM generators. Our experi- ments probing these pipelines with five perturba- tion types show that slight variations in the input queries can result in significant performance dis- crepancies. Our analysis framework enables the investiga- tion of RAG module sensitivity to query perturba- Figure 5: Representation of samples taken from Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct