complete scores) supports a variety of possible applications, from piece identification to version detection and music recom- mendation. The deep learning approach is still in its early stages, and a number of obstacles and open problems prevent robust and large-scale deployment under real-world conditions, some of which we have already begun to solve: • Variable tempo and context discrepancies. Global and local tempo deviations are inherent in performed music and require careful design of the amount of tem- poral context to be provided to a retrieval system dur- ing training. • Strongly-aligned data constraint. Obtaining match- ing pairs of short excerpts for training deep learning- based models requires finer alignments between audio and sheet music. Such data is complex and of expen- sive nature, and as a result synthetic data is used for training. • Generalisation to real-world (noisy) data The large numbers of precisely aligned pairs of audio and score snippets required for training are currently obtained by synthesising them in a controlled way from machine- readable scores and corresponding MIDI files. Gen- eralising to real performance recordings and imperfect score scans turns out to be very challenging. • Temporal dependencies between subsequent snip- pets. When handling entire documents, consecu- tive snippets exhibit strong temporal correspondences, which should be exploited for more robust identifica- tion and retrieval. • Public large-scale datasets. Up to this date, there is no license-free and truly large audio–sheet music dataset for evaluation of current algorithms. • Efficient structures for fast retrieval. Quick cross- modal retrieval algorithms are essential when one is browsing through large-scale and heterogeneous music collections. This aspect can be often overlooked when the main focus is on retrieval quality metrics such as precision and recall. • Instrumentation and genre. Current methods have been developed specifically for classical and, even more specifically,