direction should target algorithms that can scale to large music collections, in terms of pro- cessing time, and that are flexible and robust in dealing with structural mismatches between audio and sheet music. 3. Remaining Challenges In this section, we briefly discuss the remaining obstacles and open problems, and identify promising directions for future research. 3.1 Public large-scale datasets Large and licence-free datasets are invaluable resources in audio–sheet music retrieval research, enabling the train- ing of deep learning models, facilitating benchmarking and comparative studies, promoting reproducibility, encourag- ing innovation, and ensuring the relevance of developed methods to real-world applications. For the audio part, existing public datasets such as MAE- STRO [11] provide a considerable number of piano au- dio recordings. However when targeting truly large-scale databases, Youtube3 can be a valuable source for collecting audio recordings, via using its API or scrapping techniques. Together with big amounts of curated sheet music PDFs obtained from online libraries like IMSLP, researchers can create large-scale audio-sheet music datasets that enable the development and evaluation of robust retrieval methodolo- gies. However, it is important to ensure compliance with copyright laws, respect data usage policies of the platforms involved, and provide appropriate attribution when using data from third-party sources. 3https://www.youtube.com 3.2 Efficient structures for fast retrieval Quick responses are pivotal in audio-sheet music re- trieval research, particularly in large-scale scenarios, as they enhance efficiency, improve the user experience, ensure scalability, enable practical deployment, and support real- time feedback and iterative refinement. A potential direction is to use compact cross-modal fin- gerprints, which allow fast search in music as in [1, 14]. Moreover such algorithms should be flexible to handle any kind of structural mismatch between an audio performance and a printed score, as discussed in Subsection 2.4. 3.3 Instrumentation and genre Incorporating diverse instrumentation and