construction way in Section A is general and easy to reproduce. For newly defined rule patterns, we can quickly con- struct corresponding benchmarks using the above construction way, showing its better scalability. Moreover, our constructed RuleQA also provide corresponding fine-tuning datasets, which aim to improve the retrieval and generation ability of LMs. Currently, obtaining high-quality and plentiful su- pervised data for a specific task is a challenging problem for researchers (Wang et al., 2024). Man- ual annotation is time-consuming and difficult to replicate. A very convenient and widely used way is to distil knowledge from LLMs. However, rely- ing on LLMs to generate data for training puts too much trust in them and does not actually guarantee the accuracy of the reasoning ability in the trained models. In contrast, in this paper, the fine-tuning datasets of the retrievers are obtained by pattern matching and retrieval recall; the fine-tuning datasets for gen- erators are obtained by using the KG nodes as an- swers and using retrieved information as instruc- tions. The entire process is efficiently streamlined and automatically generated. I Case Study A concrete example in Table 8 visually compares the baseline model (Standard RAG) and our pro- posed methods, RuleRAG-ICL and RuleRAG-FT. Specifically, the documents retrieved by the orig- inal DPR are almost irrelevant to the query and 16 Query: Time 2014-12-11 what does Court Judge (Nigeria) Accuse ? Ground Truth: Citizen (Nigeria). Rules: Rule One: [Entity1, Accede to demands for change in leadership, Entity2] leads to [Entity1, Accuse, Entity2]. Rule Two: [Entity1, Ease administrative sanctions, Entity2] leads to [Entity1, Accuse, Entity2]. Rule Three: [Entity1, Appeal for diplomatic cooperation, Entity2] leads to [Entity1, Accuse, Entity2]. Retrieved documents of DPR (top-10): ① Time 2014-08-22 Representatives (Nigeria) Consult Media (Africa). ② Time 2014-05-27 Activist (Nigeria) Consult Associated Press. ③ Time 2014-06-16 Education