more targeted retrieval and offer docu- ments that can better support question answering. Upon the above motivation, we propose RuleRAG, Rule-guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation, which enables to both retrieve documents and reason answers with the guidance of rules. Compared to standard RAG, which relies on finding the precise statement of the query to be answered, training-free RuleRAG-ICL requires the introduction of rules in the input sides of the retrievers to retrieve and generators to reason. To boost the rule-following reasoning ability, we further design rule-guided fine-tuning (RGFT) to retrofit retrievers and generators (RuleRAG-FT). However, although rules are common and valu- able for the QA task, most existing RAG datasets were constructed without considering rules. KGs are widely known to provide question-answer pairs and high-coverage rules, so we newly construct five rule-aware QA benchmarks (RuleQA) from five KGs to offer rich data. The strong performance of KG rule mining algorithms also ensures the acqui- sition of rules with high confidence. In addition, the answers in RuleQA require reasoning based on rules rather than directly repeating retrieved facts like existing RAG datasets, so RuleQA is knowledge-intensive and more challenging. Ex- periments on RuleQA show that, under several retrieval and generation configurations, RuleRAG- ICL offers considerable performance gains with the individual guidance of rules by in-context learning and RuleRAG-FT achieves further improvements by fine-tuning retrievers and generators. RuleRAG- FT can be extrapolated to unseen rules without retraining, confirming the superiority of rules to retrieve and reason in RAG. We also introduce RuleRAG into an advanced model CoK to empha- size the paradigm of Rule-guided RAG is suitable for different RAG methods. Moreover, we conduct experiments on four existing RAG datasets. As a result, RuleRAG is beneficial for our constructed RuleQA and for introducing rules to existing RAG datasets. RuleRAG-CoK shows the attribution of the