meet the specified consistency threshold undergo further processing, effectively preventing the propagation of errors in the generation process. Finally, FILCO [141] implements a comprehensive filtering approach using three distinct strate- gies: String Inclusion (STRINC) to match exact outputs, Lexical Overlap to measure word-level similarity, and Conditional Cross-Mutual Information (CXMI) to assess how much the context improves output likelihood. FILCO applies these filtering strategies at the sentence level, refining the retrieved content for better relevance. Additionally, FILCO trains a context filtering model using these strategies, which predicts the most useful context at inference time, thereby enhancing the accuracy and relevance of the generation model’s output. 6 Generation 6.1 Enhancing Enhancing methods are strategies aimed at improving the quality and relevance of generated outputs by integrating retrieved content in various ways. These methods differ in how they combine, aggregate, or refine retrieved information, offering multiple approaches to enrich the final output. Broadly, these techniques can be grouped into three categories: enhancing with queries, enhancing with ensemble approaches, and enhancing with feedback loops. Enhance with Query. This approach integrates the retrieved documents with the original query, enabling the generator to leverage both sources in producing the final output. By combining the query with the retrieved content, the generation process ensures that the response remains closely aligned with the user’s intent while being enriched by relevant information. The focus here is on the seamless fusion of the query and context, allowing the generated output to maintain both relevance , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: August 2018. 18 Huang et al. and completeness. For instance, the RETRO [9] model enhances generation by integrating retrieved text chunks with the user’s query using a chunked cross-attention mechanism, where relevant information from the retrieved neighbors is directly injected into the generation process. This method involves