text should accurately convey the information from the retrieved documents and align with the query’s intent, while also offering the flexibility to introduce new insights or perspectives not explicitly contained within the retrieved data. 2.2 RAG Paradigm The RAG paradigm organizes research within the domain, offering a straightforward yet robust framework to enhance LLM performance. Central to RAG is its search mechanism, crucial for generating high-quality outcomes. Therefore, this paradigm is structured into four main phases from a retrieval perspective: pre-retrieval, retrieval, post-retrieval, and generation. Both single-hop and multi-hop retrieval approaches, encompassing iterative retrieve-generate cycles, follow this four-phase structure. Figure 3 is the taxonomy tree of RAG’s core techniques. 2.2.1 Pre-Retrieval. The pre-retrieval phase of retrieval-augmented generation lays the foundation for successful data and query preparation, ensuring efficient information retrieval. This phase includes essential tasks to prepare for effective data access. Indexing. The process starts with indexing, which establishes an organized system to enable fast and accurate retrieval of information. The specificity of indexing depends on the task and data type. For example, sentence-level indexing is beneficial for question-answering systems to precisely locate answers, while document-level indexing is more appropriate for summarizing documents to understand their main concepts and ideas. Query Manipulation. After indexing, query manipulation is performed to adjust user queries for a better match with the indexed data. This involves query reformulation [61, 155], which rewrites , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: August 2018. The Survey of Retrieval-Augmented Text Generation in Large Language Models 5 the query to align more closely with the user’s intention; query expansion [51], which extends the query to capture more relevant results through synonyms or related terms; and query normalization, which resolves differences in spelling or terminology for consistent query matching. Data Modification. Data modification is also critical in enhancing