The Survey of Retrieval-Augmented Text Generation in Large Language Models YIZHENG HUANG and JIMMY X. HUANG, York University, Canada Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) merges retrieval methods with deep learning advancements to address the static limitations of large language models (LLMs) by enabling the dynamic integration of up-to-date external information. This methodology, focusing primarily on the text domain, provides a cost-effective solution to the generation of plausible but possibly incorrect responses by LLMs, thereby enhancing the accuracy and reliability of their outputs through the use of real-world data. As RAG grows in complexity and incorporates multiple concepts that can influence its performance, this paper organizes the RAG paradigm into four categories: pre-retrieval, retrieval, post-retrieval, and generation, offering a detailed perspective from the retrieval viewpoint. It outlines RAG’s mechanics and discusses the field’s progression through the analysis of significant studies. Additionally, the paper introduces evaluation methods for RAG, addressing the challenges faced and proposing future research directions. By offering an organized framework and categorization, the study aims to consolidate existing research on RAG, clarify its technological underpinnings, and highlight its potential to broaden the adaptability and applications of LLMs. CCS Concepts: •Computing methodologies → Natural language generation; •Information systems → Information retrieval. Additional Key Words and Phrases: retrieval-augmented generation, information retrieval, large language model ACM Reference Format: Yizheng Huang and Jimmy X. Huang. 2018. The Survey of Retrieval-Augmented Text Generation in Large Language Models. In Proceedings of Make sure to enter the correct conference title from your rights confirmation emai (Conference acronym ’XX). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 37 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX 1 Introduction The advent of ChatGPT has significantly impacted both academia and industry due to its interactive capabilities and widespread application, establishing itself as a leading artificial intelligence tool [55, 60, 77]. At the core of ChatGPT is the large language model