of the LoRAG framework in enhancing retrieval- augmented text generation, establishing it as a compelling approach in the realm of generative models. V. C ONCLUSION In conclusion, this research introduces the Loops On Re- trieval augmented generation (LoRAG) framework, offering a novel approach to enhancing retrieval-augmented text gen- eration. By integrating an iterative loop mechanism, LoRAG dynamically refines generated outputs through iterative inter- actions with retrieved information. Our comprehensive eval- uation on benchmark datasets demonstrates that LoRAG sur- passes existing state-of-the-art models in terms of BLEU score, ROUGE score, and perplexity, indicating its superior ability to achieve both contextual coherence and relevance. Quali- tative assessments further validate the model’s effectiveness, showcasing its proficiency in producing more contextually relevant and coherent text outputs. The success of LoRAG underscores the importance of iterative loops in mitigating challenges encountered by traditional text generation models. This research contributes to the evolving landscape of gener- ative models and lays the groundwork for future endeavors in refining and extending the capabilities of retrieval-augmented text generation systems. REFERENCES [1] Ebtesam Almazrouei, Hamza Alobeidli, Abdulaziz Alshamsi, Alessan- dro Cappelli, Ruxandra Cojocaru, M ´erouane Debbah, ´Etienne Goffinet, Daniel Hesslow, Julien Launay, Quentin Malartic, et al. The falcon series of open language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.16867 , 2023. [2] Sid Black, Gao Leo, Phil Wang, Connor Leahy, and Stella Biderman. GPT-Neo: Large Scale Autoregressive Language Modeling with Mesh- Tensorflow, March 2021. If you use this software, please cite it using these metadata. [3] Anthony Gillioz, Jacky Casas, Elena Mugellini, and Omar Abou Khaled. Overview of the transformer-based models for nlp tasks. In 2020 15th Conference on Computer Science and Information Systems (FedCSIS) , pages 179–183. IEEE, 2020. [4] Yue Kang, Zhao Cai, Chee-Wee Tan, Qian Huang, and Hefu Liu. Natural language processing (nlp) in management research: A literature review. Journal