follows: • We introduce MoRSE, an open-source framework9 which is the first attempt to integrate two RAG systems to handle multidimensional cybersecurity contexts. This architec- ture enables a unique synthesis of different data sources and improves the depth and relevance of security insights. • We introduce a three-part evaluation test suite that mea- sures the relevance, similarity and correctness of RAG systems in conjunction with LLMs. We have further validated these results with two additional test suites based on the LLM as a Judge approach. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to provide such contribution. • We demonstrate how MoRSE can exploit its unique real-time cybersecurity keyword detection capability to improve the correctness of responses by 10% compared to GPT-4, addressing the critical need for timely and accurate security analysis. • MoRSE differs from conventional RAGs by using parallel retrievers that work together to retrieve semantically related information in different formats and structures. This is particularly important in the cybersecurity domain, where different data types such as exploit code, TTP descriptions, CVEs and white papers often exist for a particular threat but are rarely related to each other. MoRSE exploits these parallel retrievers and LLMs to integrate related information and provide comprehensive answers to queries. b) Organisation: The rest of the article is structured as follows. Section II discusses background information on LLMs and RAGs. Section III describes the MoRSE architecture. Section IV describes the experiments performed to evaluate the performance of MoRSE, including a comparative analysis with known commercial models. Section V provides an overview of related research work that includes various cybersecurity tools such as knowledge graphs, entity extraction tools, chatbots, and cyber threat intelligence (CTI). The conclusions and future work directions are presented in Section VI. II. BACKGROUND This section provides an overview