question: What is CVE-2017-5162? . This shows that GPT-4 is not able to provide the correct answer. To overcome these limitations, it is crucial to build continuous learning mechanisms into LLMs that allow them to dynamically update their knowledge base with the latest information [15]. Although retraining can be time-consuming, updating with new information is essential to maintain the relevance of LLM responses [16], [17]. For this reason, companies are quickly discovering the value of Retrieval Augmented Generation chatbots. Although RAG systems have made significant advances on cybersecurity, re- searchers and practitioners often lacks comprehensive models that unify diverse cybersecurity data and dynamic, real-time updated systems that are essential for addressing the evolving cyber threat landscape. In fact, effective analysis of threats, vulnerabilities and exploits requires a thorough understanding of individual entities and their broader interactions. Example 1: Ground Truth. CVE: CVE-2017-5162 Description: An issue was discovered in BINOM3 Universal Multifunctional Electric Power Quality Meter. Lack of authentication for remote service gives access to application set up and configuration. Example 2: GPT-4 0125-Preview Response. CVE: CVE-2017-5162 Description: CVE-2017-5162 is a vulnerability asso- ciated with Broadcom Wi-Fi chipsets. It is one of the vulnerabilities part of the BroadPwn exploit. BroadPwn is a critical security flaw that allows a remote attacker to compromise a vulnerable device over the air, without any interaction from the user. arXiv:2407.15748v1 [cs.CR] 22 Jul 2024 a) Contribution: In this paper, we present MoRSE (Mixture of RAGs Security Experts), a novel framework developed for Question and Answering tasks in the field of cybersecurity. Unlike other chatbots MoRSE is the first RAG framework that aims to provide comprehensive coverage of cybersecurity knowledge. To achieve this, MoRSE uses two RAG systems in cascade. These two RAGs divide the process into two distinct phases: Information Retrieval phase, which is managed by