MoRSE: Bridging the Gap in Cybersecurity Expertise with Retrieval Augmented Generation Marco Simoni 1, Andrea Saracino 2, Vinod Puthuvath 3,4, and Maurco Conti 3,4 1Istituto di Informatica e Telematica, Consiglio Nazionale Delle Ricerche, Pisa, Italy 2TeCIP, Scuola Universitaria Superiore Sant’Anna, Pisa, Italy 3University of Padua, Italy and Delft University of Technology, Netherlands Abstract—In this paper, we introduce MoRSE (Mixture of RAGs Security Experts), the first specialised AI chatbot for cybersecurity. MoRSE aims to provide comprehensive and com- plete knowledge about cybersecurity. MoRSE uses two RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation) systems designed to retrieve and organize information from multidimensional cybersecurity contexts. MoRSE differs from traditional RAGs by using parallel retrievers that work together to retrieve semantically related information in different formats and structures. Unlike tradi- tional Large Language Models (LLMs) that rely on Parametric Knowledge Bases, MoRSE retrieves relevant documents from Non-Parametric Knowledge Bases in response to user queries. Subsequently, MoRSE uses this information to generate accurate answers. In addition, MoRSE benefits from real-time updates to its knowledge bases, enabling continuous knowledge enrichment without retraining. We have evaluated the effectiveness of MoRSE against other state-of-the-art LLMs, evaluating the system on 600 cybersecurity specific questions. The experimental evaluation has shown that the improvement in terms of relevance and correctness of the answer is more than 10% compared to known solutions such as GPT-4 and Mixtral 7x8. I. I NTRODUCTION The increasing frequency and sophistication of new cyber threats have made cybersecurity a critical priority across all sectors, with a 15% increase in three years 1 on data breaches only. In recent years, the amount of cybersecurity- related information has exploded, providing important re- sources to protect against these threats by mitigating risk and improving cybersecurity measures. However, this rapid proliferation of information has led to a cluttered and often unstructured data landscape, complicating