responses. b) Knowledge Graphs for Cybersecurity : Knowledge graphs (KGs) are revolutionizing cybersecurity, from threat intelli- gence to education. Agrawal et al. [73] have shown how KGs from unstructured text enhance cybersecurity learning, with student feedback highlighting improved understanding and engagement. Sewak et al. developed CRUSH [74], which inte- grates Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-3.5/GPT- 4/ChatGPT with Enterprise Knowledge Graphs (EKGs) to create Threat Intelligence Graphs (TIG) that achieve up to 99% recall in identifying malicious scripts. Li et al. devel- oped AttacKG [75], which automates the extraction of attack techniques from CTI reports into structured knowledge graphs, which greatly improves the analysis of attack patterns with high accuracy and supports advanced threat detection efforts. Liu et al. [76] use NLP to convert over 29k cybersecurity reports into 113,543 actionable Cyber Threat Intelligence (CTI) points by highlighting campaign triggers for better classification accuracy. Piplay et al. [77] describes a system for generating Cybersecurity Knowledge Graphs (CKGs) from Af- ter Action Reports (AARs) using a ‘Malware Entity Extractor’ and neural networks that improves security analysis through refined query responses. Gao et al. [78] use of a heteroge- neous information network (HIN) and meta-path approach within a graph convolutional network is characterized by its sophisticated threat type identification capabilities validated by real-world data. Sikos et al. [79] discuss how knowledge graphs help in cybersecurity threat intelligence and automated reasoning, and highlights their importance in analyzing cyber data. Ren et al. [80] present a knowledge graph for APT attack mapping that combines deep learning with network defense expertise. Mitra et al. [81] augment CKGs with provenance information to combat fake cybersecurity information and ensure data reliability. In comparison, MoRSE addresses the limitations of Knowl- edge Graphs (KGs) in cybersecurity by providing dynamic updates with real-time adjustments as opposed to the manual