arXiv:2403.10939v1 [cs.IR] 16 Mar 2024 Improving the Robustness of Dense Retrievers Against Typos via Multi-Positive Contrastive Learning Georgios Sidiropoulos [0000− 0002− 6486− 089X] and Evangelos Kanoulas[0000− 0002− 8312− 0694] University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands {g.sidiropoulos, e.kanoulas }@uva.nl Abstract. Dense retrieval has become the new paradigm in passage re- trieval. Despite its eﬀectiveness on typo-free queries, it is not robust when dealing with queries that contain typos. Current works on im proving the typo-robustness of dense retrievers combine (i) data augme ntation to ob- tain the typoed queries during training time with (ii) addit ional robusti- fying subtasks that aim to align the original, typo-free que ries with their typoed variants. Even though multiple typoed variants are a vailable as positive samples per query, some methods assume a single pos itive sample and a set of negative ones per anchor and tackle the robustify ing subtask with contrastive learning; therefore, making insuﬃcient u se of the multi- ple positives (typoed queries). In contrast, in this work, w e argue that all available positives can be used at the same time and employ co ntrastive learning that supports multiple positives (multi-positiv e). Experimental results on two datasets show that our proposed approach of le verag- ing all positives simultaneously and employing multi-posi tive contrastive learning on the robustifying subtask yields improvements i n robustness against using contrastive learning with a single positive. Keywords: Dense retrieval · Typo-robustness · Contrastive learning. 1 Introduction Dense retrieval has become the new paradigm in passage retrieval. It has demon- strated higher eﬀectiveness than traditional lexical-based metho ds due to its abil- ity to tackle the vocabulary mismatch problem [5]. Even though dens e retrievers are highly eﬀective on typo-free queries, they can witness a drama tic perfor- mance decrease when dealing with queries that contain