al., 2020). However, these methods are not satisfied for multi-hop questions, necessitating a more nuanced approach to acquiring comprehen- sive knowledge. Such questions often involve in- direct facts that may exhibit minimal lexical or semantic correlation with the question but are es- 1 arXiv:2404.14464v1 [cs.CL] 22 Apr 2024 sential for reaching accurate answers. For instance, to answer the question,‘According to the 2001 census, what was the population of the city in which Kirton End is located?’ . First, we need to know that ’Kirton End is located in Boston’ , then look up ’the population of Boston according to the 2001 census’ . This process highlights the necessity of iterative re- trieval, underscoring the limitations of one-time retrieval strategies in addressing complex informa- tional needs. Iterative retrieval involves conducting multiple turns of retrieval, each guided by newly generated sub-questions (Press et al., 2023), the most recent response (Shao et al., 2023), or an intermediate reasoning step (Trivedi et al., 2023). As illustrated in Figure 1, these methods employ a sequential, chain-like process alternating between retrieval and query generation. While these approaches demon- strate superior performance compared to one-time retrieval, the chain-like nature of the process is sus- ceptible to cascading errors. A local error at any step, whether due to inappropriate retrieval or query generation, can affect subsequent steps, culminat- ing in incorrect responses. Such errors underscore the inherent vulnerability of iterative retrieval meth- ods, highlighting a critical challenge in achieving reliable knowledge extraction. To this end, drawing inspiration from previous work that leveraged a tree-like reasoning process to enhance reasoning capability (Yao et al., 2023a), this paper introduces TREE OF REVIEWS (TOR) a dynamic, tree-based iterative retrieval framework. We follow the retrieve-and-read paradigm (Zhu et al., 2021), the retriever initially retrieves knowledge for the question, and the reader utilizes