Tree of Reviews: A Tree-based Dynamic Iterative Retrieval Framework for Multi-hop Question Answering Jiapeng Li1, Runze Liu2, Yabo Li1, Tong Zhou1, Mingming Li1, Xiang Chen1 1Tencent Inc., Shenzhen, China 2Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin, China {montereyli, kerli, tongzhou, merakili, joshuaxchen}@tencent.com, rzliu@ir.hit.edu.cn Abstract Multi-hop question answering is a knowledge- intensive complex problem. Large Lan- guage Models (LLMs) use their Chain of Thoughts (CoT) capability to reason com- plex problems step by step, and retrieval- augmentation can effectively alleviate factual errors caused by outdated and unknown knowl- edge in LLMs. Recent works have introduced retrieval-augmentation in the CoT reasoning to solve multi-hop question answering. However, these chain methods have the following prob- lems: 1) Retrieved irrelevant paragraphs may mislead the reasoning; 2) An error in the chain structure may lead to a cascade of errors. In this paper, we propose a dynamic retrieval framework called TREE OF REVIEWS (TOR), where the root node is the question, and the other nodes are paragraphs from retrieval, ex- tending different reasoning paths from the root node to other nodes. Our framework dynami- cally decides to initiate a new search, reject, or accept based on the paragraphs on the reason- ing paths. Compared to related work, we intro- duce a tree structure to handle each retrieved paragraph separately, alleviating the misleading effect of irrelevant paragraphs on the reasoning path; the diversity of reasoning path extension reduces the impact of a single reasoning error on the whole. We conducted experiments on three different multi-hop question answering datasets. The results show that compared to the baseline methods, TOR achieves state-of-the- art performance in both retrieval and response generation. In addition, we propose two tree- based search optimization strategies, pruning and effective expansion, to reduce time over- head and increase the diversity of path exten- sion. We will release