achieving reliable knowledge extraction. To this end, drawing inspiration from previous work that leveraged a tree-like reasoning process to enhance reasoning capability (Yao et al., 2023a), this paper introduces TREE OF REVIEWS (TOR) a dynamic, tree-based iterative retrieval framework. We follow the retrieve-and-read paradigm (Zhu et al., 2021), the retriever initially retrieves knowledge for the question, and the reader utilizes this retrieved knowledge to generate a response. In detail, we construct a tree with the initial ques- tion serving as the root and individual paragraphs as other nodes during the retrieval phase. Each node contains a single paragraph, mitigating the risk of diverging the reasoning process due to ir- relevant information. A paragraph review block within this structure evaluates each node to de- termine the subsequent action—further retrieval, acceptance, or rejection. Each accepted path is re- ferred to as a piece of evidence. We propose three evidence fusion methods, allowing the reader to utilize evidence from various paths to generate the final response. Incorporating a tree structure into the retrieval process has enhanced the performance of paragraph retrieval and answer accuracy. To further enhance the search efficiency of ToR, we advocate for two tree-based search optimiza- tion strategies: pruning, which aims to diminish the frequency of unproductive search initiations, and effective expansion, designed to refine query generation for improved retrieval paragraphs. Experiments on three different multi-hop ques- tion answering datasets show that our proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performance in both retrieval and response generation. Our contributions include: • We propose a dynamic retrieval framework named TREE OF REVIEWS (TOR), which in- tegrates a tree structure into the iterative re- trieval process. This method mitigates the negative impact associated with the inherent vulnerabilities of chain-like retrieval methods. • We propose two tree-based search optimiza- tion strategies: pruning and effective expan- sion.