clearly identifiable. Instruction Generation. We initiate data synthesis by generating a suitable instruction for each query-passage pair in MS MARCO. We prompt gpt-4o-mini to produce instructions that add specificity or stylistic context, thereby explicitly linking queries more precisely to their corresponding ground-truth passages. Leveraging gpt-4o-mini enables scalable instruction generation with a careful balance between effectiveness and computational efficiency. Contrastive Negatives. To facilitate effective representation learning, we generate challenging negative samples by systematically altering instructions and queries independently, forcing the retrieval model to distinguish subtle differences in relevance. Unlike traditional retrieval setups relying solely on <query, passage> pairs, instruction-following retrieval introduces an additional dimension, the instruction. Thus, effective negative sampling must fulfill two criteria: (1) negative samples must be sufficiently different from positives to alter tuple relevance significantly; and (2) they should retain close semantic similarity to positives, enabling models to detect nuanced differences. To fulfill these criteria, we instruct gpt-4o-mini to subtly alter (i.e., poison) the original positive instruction I + and query Q+, producing closely related yet instructionally misaligned negatives I − and Q−. By combining the negatively modified instruction with the original query ( I −, Q+) and vice versa (I +, Q−), we obtain two new negative passages P 1− and P 2−. By contrasting these carefully generated negative tuples (I −, Q+, P 1−) and (I +, Q−, P 2−) against the original positive tuple (I +, Q+, P +), our training encourages the model to more accurately capture subtle variations in instruction, query, and passage relevance (Figure 2). Additional details are available in appendix B. 0.70 0.75 0.80 0.85 0.90 0.95Cohen's Kappa 0.84 0.78 0.80 0.92FollowIR-7B gpt-4o-mini gpt-4o o3-mini Figure 4: Cohen’s kappa from 100 random samples. Data Quality Check. To ensure the quality and semantic consis- tency of our synthetic data, we employ an