MARCO and datasets from the TREC collections, each of which comes with specific licensing terms that we have strictly followed. MS MARCO is distributed under a non-commercial license, and any derived datasets, including ours, must adhere to similar terms. Researchers aiming to use InF-IR and InF-Embed should ensure compliance with the respective licenses of these original sources. Additionally, while leveraging LLMs such as gpt-4o-mini and o3-mini to generate synthetic instructions and queries, we have carefully avoided generating personally identifiable or sensitive information. Nevertheless, practitioners must exercise caution when extending our methods to datasets involving sensitive or private data, ensuring strict adherence to data privacy regulations and ethical standards relevant to their application contexts. A.4 Ethical Statements Throughout our dataset creation and model training, we strictly adhered to the licensing agreements of all source datasets (e.g., MS MARCO and TREC collections). In addition, we conducted thorough checks to prevent any form of contamination of the test set. Despite these measures, practitioners using our dataset and methods must ensure compliance with privacy standards and ethical guidelines relevant to their specific applications, especially when dealing with sensitive or user-specific data. InF-IR involves the usage of OpenAI APIs. To prevent any potential information leakage, we strictly follow data usage guidelines of Microsoft Azure’s Open AI API service and have withdrawn from the human review process by completing and submitting the Azure OpenAI Additional Use Case Form. We do not foresee other ethics issues. 16 B InF-IR: Additional Data Curation Details B.1 Additional Data Quality Checks Beyond the quality assurance steps described in Section 4.1, we employ a rule-based filtering step to further enhance sample quality. Specifically, we truncate synthetic instructions and queries at the first occurrence of a newline character (\n), ensuring the removal of irrelevant or extraneous text. B.2 Additional Data Sources While