more accurately capture subtle variations in instruction, query, and passage relevance (Figure 2). Additional details are available in appendix B. 0.70 0.75 0.80 0.85 0.90 0.95Cohen's Kappa 0.84 0.78 0.80 0.92FollowIR-7B gpt-4o-mini gpt-4o o3-mini Figure 4: Cohen’s kappa from 100 random samples. Data Quality Check. To ensure the quality and semantic consis- tency of our synthetic data, we employ an advanced reasoning model, o3-mini, for quality evaluation. This validation procedure rigorously verifies whether the generated instructions preserve the original positive relevance of <query,passage> pairs from MS MARCO. We specif- ically check consistency across all combinations: the positive tuple (I +, Q+, P +), and the two negative variations (I −, Q+, P 1−) and (I +, Q−, P 2−). For each validation scenario, we simulate the instruc- tion retrieval task by presenting o3-mini with the instruction and query alongside the positive passage, closely-related negatives, and additional distractive passages randomly sampled from MS MARCO. We then prompt o3-mini to identify the most relevant passage. Only tuples that yield consistent and unambiguous relevance judgments across all three scenarios are retained, while others are discarded. This rigorous filtering maintains a high standard of data quality and ensures reliable model training. 5 To validate the effectiveness and reliability of our quality-check procedure, we conducted a human annotation study. Annotators were asked to identify the most relevant passage for a given instruction- query pair from a set of distractors, including generated negatives from above as well as in-batch negatives. Figure 4 reports the average agreement scores (Cohen’s Kappa) between human annotators and various models. The results clearly indicate that o3-mini achieves higher agreement with human judgments compared to other models, including FollowIR-7B, gpt-4o-mini, and gpt-4o, thus confirming the robustness and validity of our filtering strategy. 4.2 Data Visualization and Analysis We conduct a comparative experimental