and comments justifying the score, is provided online as described in Section 4.5.3. One correct and complete answer, one correct but providing wrong references and one incorrect answer are given as examples just below. Question: What is the role of vaccine against antimicrobial resistance? Answer: Vaccines can play a significant role in controlling antimicrobial resistance (AMR) by reducing the number of cases of disease requiring therapy, protecting recipients through direct immunization, and indirectly via herd immunity. By decreasing the prevalence of AMR bacteria and the need for antibiotics, vaccines can help combat the transmission of pathogens and their antimicrobial resistances from animals to humans. Vaccination also reduces the number of pathogens associated with clinical syndromes, enabling narrow - spectrum therapies and making a positive impact on the gut microb iota. The gut microbiota can provide colonization resistance, protecting against the implantation of enteric pathogens and subsequent infections. In summary, vaccines are a promising strategy to reduce antimicrobial resistance by decreasing the need for antibiotics, controlling the spread of resistant bacteria, and promoting a healthier gut microbiota. Desired answer: Vaccines play a vital role in the control of antimicrobial resistance because they can reduce the number of cases of disease requiring therapy, both directly by protecting recipients and indirectly via herd immunity. Moreover, they can reduce the number of pathogens associated with clinical syndromes, thereby permitting narrow-spectrum therapies, and they can be used to combat the transmission of pathogens and their antimicrobial resistances from animals to humans. Comments: Good answer, complete, with reference to 6 papers. Score: 5 Question: Which antibiotic shows the highest level of resistance for an infection by Staphylococcus pseudintermedius in dogs in Finland? 30 Answer: Based on the provided context, there is no direct information regarding the specific antibiotic that shows the highest level of resistance for