to strict ethical and regulatory guidelines could mitigate some of these concerns. However, it is crucial to approach the use of LLMs in health document analysis with caution, ensuring that their use enhances rather than compromises the quality and equity of patient care. 3.3 Proposed solutions and approaches We identified in the previous section several critical aspects for the use of LLMs in the processing, transforming and distillation of healthcare documents, namely: leakage of personal information, bias and fairness, lack of explainability or interpretability, forgetfulness and limited factuality and toxicity. Let’s now summarize the main strategies present in the literature to mitigate those risks and thus unlock the full exploitation of this powerful AI tool. To mitigate the risk of personal data leakage, robust de -identification techniques should be employed, along with federated learning approaches that keep sensitive data localized [17]. Differential privacy methods can also be applied to add noise to the data, further protecting individual privacy [18], [19]. Regular audits of model outputs should be conducted to detect and prevent potential information leaks. To address bias and fairness issues, it is fundamental to diversify training data sources and employ bias detection and mitigation algorithms [20]. Regular testing of models for disparate outcomes across different demographic groups is essential, as it is the implementation of fairness constraints in model objectives. The lack of explainability and interpretability in LLMs poses challenges in healthcare settings where transparency is critical. While in classical models locally interpretable machine learning techniques such as LIME11 and SHAP12 can be utilized to provide insights into model decision- making processes [21], [22], [23] , these techniques do not work well for LLMs. Developing domain-specific explanation methods such as [12], using in -domain knowledge augmentation, and combining LLMs with rule -based sy stems can further enhance transparency. Additionally,