in the collection. Therefore, it will be of an added value to understand how many documents in the collection support each statement of the answer. 29 Nevertheless, the role of the prompting is fundamental and defines the quality of the answers. When asking “ summarize in the form of a table the main technologies advancing the human digital twin development”, the system provides a table with the company name, a product and a brief description. However, when the question is reframed indica ting not to provide company names or products but technologies such as “machine learning” or “models”, etc., the resulting table contains the technology and a brief description, as expected. 5.2.4 Bacteriophages (AMR) The system improved markedly during the development, including a higher rate of completed answers and better -structured responses that incorporated bullet points effectively. It showcased a broader range of references to papers, suggesting more comprehensive research for its responses. The system also exhibited an enhanced ability to focus on relevant information without truncating sentences mid -way. Additionally, it displayed improved comprehension of imprecise terms like 'proportion,' accurately interpreting them as 'percentage.' Despite the se advancements, some limitations were observed. The system occasionally conflated 'EU' with 'Europe' as a continent. It struggled with interpreting tables, figures, and subtitles, sometimes failing to extract numerical values accurately. Finally, longer r esponses were sometimes incomplete, with answers being cut off at the end. The complete evaluation, including question type, score and comments justifying the score, is provided online as described in Section 4.5.3. One correct and complete answer, one correct but providing wrong references and one incorrect answer are given as examples just below. Question: What is the role of vaccine against antimicrobial resistance? Answer: Vaccines can play a significant role in controlling antimicrobial resistance (AMR) by reducing the number