and task performance better than other methods. I t required half the number of search operations than an Always Retrieve approach. Semantic Sets’ innovative clustering approach per- formed poorly, with an F1 score of 0.411. Using entailment-based similarity to compute uncertaint y via the Degree Matrix NLI measure achieved an F1 score of 0.535, comparable to the baseline. The lightweight Degree Matrix (Jaccard) necessitated the least number of retrieval operations to perform better than an Always Retrieve baseline. Table 2 presents additional performance metrics over a larg er set of 75 examples. Notably, the Eccentricity method consistently demonstrated the best balance between retrieval efﬁciency and performance, achieving an average F1 score of 0.561 across different experimental runs, while re- ducing unnecessary retrievals compared to the baseline. Degree Matrix (Jaccard) performed slightly worse in F1 score ( 0.524) but depended on retrieval the least indicating its potential for applications where m inimizing retrieval costs is crucial. In contrast, the Always Retrieve approach performed better than both conditional retrieval ap- proaches but necessitated almost twice the number of retrie val calls. 7 C ONCLUSION Our experiments demonstrate that dynamic retrieval, guide d by uncertainty detection, improves the efﬁciency of retrieval-augmented generation systems, making it useful where retrieval can be expen- sive to compute. Among the methods tested, Eccentricity-based uncertainty detection emerged as the best-performing approach, offering the highest F1 sc ore with a moderate number of retrieval steps and searches. This method effectively balances retri eval efﬁciency with task performance. The Degree Matrix (Jaccard) method also showed promising results, particularly in redu cing re- trieval costs while maintaining reasonable performance. C onversely, methods such as Semantic Sets and FLARE-Instruct underperformed, highlighting the need for more reliable un certainty es- timators. Although some black-box uncertainty detection methods req uire multiple runs of generation,