Reliable AI” at ICLR’25 generation of harmful or toxic content. Furthermore, the un certainty detection approaches we em- ployed rely on estimations derived from various neural netw ork computations, which are inherently shaped by the data on which the models are trained. Consequen tly, it is critical to thoroughly test uncertainty detection methods to ensure they meet the requi rements of the intended applications. Despite these precautions, there remains a possibility tha t some approaches may misrepresent the level of certainty, as no method is ﬂawless. Therefore, ongo ing evaluation and reﬁnement of un- certainty detection mechanisms are necessary to minimize i naccuracies and potential misinterpreta- tions. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The author would like to thank Eugene Agichtein for insightf ul discussions and the anonymous reviewers for their useful feedback. The author would also l ike to thank Microsoft for providing OpenAI credits through the Microsoft Accelerating Foundat ion Models Research A ward. REFERENCES Y untao Bai, Andy Jones, Kamal Ndousse, Amanda Askell, Anna C hen, Nova DasSarma, Dawn Drain, Stanislav Fort, Deep Ganguli, Tom Henighan, et al. Tr aining a helpful and harmless assistant with reinforcement learning from human feedback . arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.05862 , 2022. Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Ja red Kaplan, Prafulla Dhari- wal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Aman da Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-V oss, Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Daniel M. Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu, Clemens Winter, Christopher Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin Chess, Jack Clark, Christopher Berner , Sam McCandlish, Alec Radford, Ilya Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. Language models are few-s hot learners, 2020. Kaustubh Dhole. Large language models as sociotechnical sy stems. In Proceedings of the Big Picture W orkshop, pp. 66–79, 2023. Kaustubh Dhole. Kaucus-knowledgeable user simulators for training large