PersonaRAG: Enhancing Retrieval-Augmented Generation Systems with User-Centric Agents Saber Zerhoudi saber.zerhoudi@uni-passau.de University of Passau Passau, Germany Michael Granitzer michael.granitzer@uni-passau.de University of Passau Passau, Germany Abstract Large Language Models (LLMs) struggle with generating reliable outputs due to outdated knowledge and hallucinations. Retrieval- Augmented Generation (RAG) models address this by enhancing LLMs with external knowledge, but often fail to personalize the retrieval process. This paper introduces PersonaRAG, a novel frame- work incorporating user-centric agents to adapt retrieval and gen- eration based on real-time user data and interactions. Evaluated across various question answering datasets, PersonaRAG demon- strates superiority over baseline models, providing tailored answers to user needs. The results suggest promising directions for user- adapted information retrieval systems. Findings and resources are available at https://github.com/padas-lab-de/PersonaRAG. CCS Concepts •Information systems → Personalization;Presentation of retrieval results;Language models. Keywords User interactions, Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), Person- alized Information Retrieval, Multi-Agent RAG. 1 Introduction Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 [ 24] and LLaMA 3 [32] have significantly advanced the field of natural language processing (NLP) by demonstrating impressive performance across various tasks and exhibiting emergent abilities that push the bound- aries of artificial intelligence [7]. However, these models face chal- lenges such as generating unreliable outputs due to issues like hallucination and outdated parametric memories [5]. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) models have shown promise in addressing these issues by integrating externally re- trieved information to support more effective performance on com- plex, knowledge-intensive tasks [20]. Despite these advancements, the deployment of RAG systems within broader AI frameworks continues to face significant challenges, particularly in handling noise and irrelevance in retrieved data [8]. A key limitation of existing RAG systems is their inability to adapt outputs to users’ specific informational and contextual needs. Personalized techniques in information retrieval, such as adaptive retrieval based on user interaction data and