fed into LLMs to generate responses to the query 𝑞. However, these passages often contain irrelevant information, and the direct utilization approach in RAG has been shown to restrict the potential benefits of the RAG framework [9]. This limitation has sparked further discussion on how to improve LLMs by integrating retrieval results and outputs generated by the models themselves [36]. 3.2 PersonaRAG: RAG with User-Centric Agents Drawing from the principles of adaptive learning and user-centered design, we develop a new PersonaRAG architecture to enable IR systems to dynamically learn from and adapt to user behavior in real-time. As shown in Figure 2, PersonaRAG introduces a three- step pipeline: retrieval, user interaction analysis, and cognitive dynamic adaptation. Unlike traditional IR models that statically respond to queries, PersonaRAG focuses on leveraging live user data to continually refine its understanding and responses without the need for manual retraining. 3.2.1 User Interaction Analysis.To understand user behavior from live interactions, PersonaRAG treats the IR system as a cognitive structure capable of receiving, interpreting, and acting upon user feedback [3]. Mimicking human learning behaviors, we establish four distinct agents within the system dedicated to analyzing user interactions from different perspectives: engagement tracking, pref- erence analysis, context understanding, and feedback integration. These agents’ roles are detailed in Section 3.2.2. 3.2.2 Cognitive Dynamic Adaptation.Following adaptive learning principles, we employ a dynamic adaptation mechanism to assist the IR system in utilizing real-time user data for continuous im- provement. This mechanism facilitates the integration of insights gained from User Interaction Analysis into the system’s retrieval processes. Specifically, we prompt the system to adjust its query responses based on an initial understanding of the user’s needs and refine these responses as more user data becomes available. This approach not only personalizes the search results but also helps in correcting any misalignments