mechanism facilitates the integration of insights gained from User Interaction Analysis into the system’s retrieval processes. Specifically, we prompt the system to adjust its query responses based on an initial understanding of the user’s needs and refine these responses as more user data becomes available. This approach not only personalizes the search results but also helps in correcting any misalignments or errors in real-time. PersonaRAG employs a highly specialized agent architecture, with each agent focusing on a specific aspect of the information re- trieval process. All agents utilize in-context learning, i.e., prompting, , Zerhoudi et al. to perform their designated tasks. This role specialization allows for the efficient decomposition of complex user queries into man- ageable tasks [27]. To foster this, we engage the IR system as five specialized agents to analyze user interactions based on retrieved data. At present, the focus is on the functionality and interaction of these agents rather than their individual performance metrics. User Profile Agent.This component manages and updates user profile data, incorporating historical user interactions and prefer- ences [18, 28]. It monitors how users interact with search results, such as click-through rates and navigation paths. The User Profile Agent helps the system understand what captures user interest and leads to deeper engagement, enabling personalized search experi- ences. Contextual Retrieval Agent.This agent is responsible for the initial retrieval of documents based on the user’s current query. It accesses both a traditional search index and a more dynamic context-aware system that can consider broader aspects of the query environment. It utilizes user profile data to modify and refine search queries or to prioritize search results. For instance, if a user consistently engages more with certain types of documents or topics, the retrieval agent can boost those document types in the search results, ensuring that the most