models. The prompt templates used in user interaction analysis and dynamic adaptation are presented in Section 4.4. Initially, the question-answering (QA) instruction is fed to ChatGPT to conduct the vanilla answer generation model. Following the work of Wei et al. [34], the Chain-of-Thought model is implemented, which generates question rationale results to pro- duce the final results. Additionally, the Guideline model serves as a baseline, generating problem-solving steps and guiding Language Models (LLMs) to generate the answer. For the RAG-based baselines, two models are implemented: vanilla RAG and Chain-of-Thought, which include utilizing raw retrieved passages (CoT with Passage) and refining the passages as notes (CoT with Note). The vanilla RAG model directly feeds the top- ranked passages to the LLM. The Chain-of-Note model [39] is also implemented, which refines and summarizes the retrieved passages for generation. Inspired by Self-RAG Asai et al. [2], the Self-Rerank model is conducted, which filters out unrelated contents without fine-tuning LLMs. 4.3 Evaluation Metrics When evaluating adaptive models, it is crucial to consider both task performance and user-centric adaptability simultaneously, along with their trade-offs. Therefore, the results are reported using dif- ferent metrics, some of which measure effectiveness and others measure efficiency. For effectiveness, accuracy is used, following the standard evalu- ation protocol in the field of Information Retrieval (IR) [2, 4, 23]. Ac- curacy assesses whether the predicted answer contains the ground- truth answer. Both the outputs of the Language Learning Model (LLM) and golden answers are converted to lowercase, and string matching (StringEM) is performed between each golden answer and the model prediction to calculate accuracy. To evaluate user-centric adaptability, the BLEU-2 score is mea- sured to assess the text similarity between different RAG and base- line setups and how well the generated answers resemble each other. This metric provides insights into the