ensuring clarity and consistency in communication between agents through well- defined data structures and protocols [ 12]. The process involves the User Profile Agent, Contextual Retrieval Agent, Live Session Agent, Document Ranking Agent, and Feedback Agent working together to refine search queries, prioritize relevant results, and improve document scoring and re-ranking based on user profile, session-specific contexts, and feedback. PersonaRAG’s modular design allows for flexibility in the system setup, enabling researchers to focus on the most relevant aspects of the user’s profile, session, and feedback data. Agents work col- laboratively by utilizing content from the Global Message Pool, which serves as a central hub for inter-agent communication [12], eliminating inefficiencies and enabling agents to access or update information as required. The Feedback Agent collects and analyzes implicit and explicit user feedback to generate insights into the effectiveness of retrieval strategies and document relevance. This feedback is used to make dynamic adjustments to the system, refining retrieval methods and altering the weighting of user profile factors. Through this iterative process, PersonaRAG continuously adapts and improves its performance, enhancing the accuracy and user satisfaction of the retrieval results [22]. 4 Experimental Setups In this section, we present the experimental setup employed in our study, including the datasets, baseline models, evaluation metrics, and implementation details. We also provide an overview of the prompts used in our experiments. 4.1 Datasets Our experiments are conducted on three widely used single-hop benchmark datasets in the field of Information Retrieval (IR): Natu- ralQuestions (NQ) [19], TriviaQA [17], and WebQuestions (WebQ) [6]. NQ is a well-known dataset in Natural Language Understand- ing (NLU), consisting of structured questions and corresponding Wikipedia pages annotated with long and short answers. TriviaQA comprises question-answer pairs collected from trivia and quiz- league websites, while WebQ consists of questions selected using the Google Suggest