broad with sixteen dimen- sions. As the field is still evolving, we deem this initial breadth beneficial to shape our community understanding. While the field is settling and ma- turing, a narrowed-down taxonomy could be the next step, to further increase the conciseness and applicability, especially for practice. As of now, expert knowledge is still needed to assess several details within the taxonomy. 6 Conclusion Our RAG taxonomy provides a structured way to categorize and analyze the diverse approaches, sys- tem features, and technologies that constitute RAG applications. Thus, we contribute to a clearer under- standing of its components and their interactions. The taxonomy has five meta-dimensions, sixteen di- mensions, and sixty-one characteristics, reflecting the inherent complexities of current RAGs. This systematic classification is essential for different researchers and practitioners to identify gaps in the current technology, facilitate research and develop- ment efforts, and identify potential use cases for real-world applications. Based on our taxonomy, we also present several avenues for future research, accommodating the RAG characteristics for differ- ent application types. Overall, the taxonomy not only enriches the academic discourse by providing a foundational framework for study and discussion but also guides practical implementations and inno- vations within the field. 8 7 Limitations Our taxonomy development approach has several limitations, which can be attributed to the nov- elty of our phenomenon of interest. Additionally, while dealing with pre-prints in a fast-moving re- search field, papers get updated while working with them, leading to inconsistencies for the research team, that need to be reworked afterward. Further- more, we do not claim completeness, as the field is quickly moving forward, and we aim to capture an initial view of the emerging phenomenon, calling for future taxonomy extensions. References Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2024. Self-rag: