including conceptual modeling approaches (Baumann et al., 2024). For example, process modeling already leverages generative AI for improving and (re-) designing organizational processes (van Dun et al., 2023). RAGs appear to make such application systems much more viable, as our taxonomy provides us an example, where knowledge structure already incorporates concep- tual process modeling types (Baumann et al., 2024). Thus, we see potential in incorporating RAGs into design science research endeavors (Hevner et al., 2004; Peffers et al., 2007; Teixeira et al., 2019) to address a variety of domain-specific applications. In our analyses, we identified proof-of-concepts and have seen little research on practical RAG ap- plications. Thus, we call for future research to ad- dress this lack of proof-of-value (Nunamaker et al., 2015). Business Value of RAG Applications: The im- pacts of AI have largely been due to increasing business value following business processes (Dav- enport and Ronanki, 2018). Research into con- versational agents has shown that they can lead to tangible business value (Kull et al., 2021; Mariani et al., 2023; McLean et al., 2021), whereas the as- sessment of LLM-based impact of business value remains under-studied (Storey et al., 2024). This could be attributed to current restraints of LLMs. However, with RAGs, there might be legitimate potential to create tangible business value, be it by also addressing knowledge- and labor-intensive services or improving work conditions. Ethical, legal, social implications: Most current research is moving towards sustainability, includ- ing calls for studying social value (Nunamaker et al., 2015) and putting the need for reflecting on values in system designs (e.g.: Bednar and Spieker- mann (2023); Friedman et al. (2013)). With LLMs already being discussed with ecological inefficien- cies due to their potential high carbon emissions, integrating RAGs to improve LLM applications might have unforeseen consequences. Similarly, we see ongoing