calls for studying social value (Nunamaker et al., 2015) and putting the need for reflecting on values in system designs (e.g.: Bednar and Spieker- mann (2023); Friedman et al. (2013)). With LLMs already being discussed with ecological inefficien- cies due to their potential high carbon emissions, integrating RAGs to improve LLM applications might have unforeseen consequences. Similarly, we see ongoing discussions on the societal impli- cations of improving works systems, leading to potential job losses (e.g. Brynjolfsson et al. (2023)) or legal disputes about leveraging copyrighted con- tent to generate new content (Golatkar et al., 2024; Samuelson, 2023). Integrating RAGs can improve either, yet its ethical, legal, and social implica- tions require careful consideration, exemplifying its socio-technical nature. Digital transformation and RAG implemen- tations: The challenges of adopting technolo- gies, including AI (Grønsund and Aanestad, 2020), firms are facing include high resistance to change and organizational barriers (Vial, 2019). Since RAG applications address traditionally knowledge- intensive tasks, such as analysis and interpretation of data, aiming to outperform human capabilities, we see the potential that RAG applications can lead to increased organizational resistance, especially when integrated into existing Enterprise applica- tions. RAGs can play a considerable role as orches- trators of enterprise application systems (Böhmann et al., 2014) to call each functionality as part of its retrieval and generate respective outputs. This in- creasing complexity of heterogeneous applications might lead to new challenges for digital transfor- mation. Thus, the taxonomy is broad with sixteen dimen- sions. As the field is still evolving, we deem this initial breadth beneficial to shape our community understanding. While the field is settling and ma- turing, a narrowed-down taxonomy could be the next step, to further increase the conciseness and applicability, especially for practice. As of now, expert knowledge is still needed to assess several details