Recognition or recall of ideas, material, or phen omena Comprehension Organising, summarising, translating, gen eralising, giving descriptions, and stating the main ideas Application Using acquired knowledge to solve problems in n ew situations Analysis Examining and breaking information into componen t parts, determining how the parts relate to one another, identifying motives or caus es, making infer- ences, and ﬁnding evidence to support generalisations Synthesis Building a structure or pattern from diverse elem ents; putting parts together to form a whole or bringing pieces of information together to fo rm a new mean- ing Evaluation Presenting and defending opinions by making jud gements about information, the validity of ideas, or quality of work based on a set of crit eria the ﬁnal outputs (e.g., written responses) that participan ts produce with AI assistance [3, 12]. Such methodologies fail to measure whether individuals’ performed critical thinking has improved. We encourage future resear ch to adopt methodologies that can distinctly evaluate both forms of cr itical thinking. To robustly assess the impact of AI on criti - cal thinking abilities, researchers should implement stud y designs that assess participants’ performed critical thinking. For example, several studies have used quasi-experiments o r interventions to evaluate whether the usage of ChatGPT impacts students’ critical thinking abilities where stude nts’ critical thinking is assessed before and after the inte rven- tions Alarcón-López et al. [1], Liu and Wang [16]. Cui and Zha o [4] conduct a qualitative assessment of students’ dialogue in a classroom setting. Future research should als o consider longitudinal frameworks that track changes in independent cognitive abilities over time. 4 AUGMENTING PERFORMED VS. DEMONSTRATED CRITICAL THINKING Designing technology to augment human capabilities has been one of the major objectives of technology development. In 1962, Engelbart [6] presents the intellect augmentation framework to