be particularly valuable in t ime-sensitive contexts, collaborative workﬂows, or when addressing highly complex problems that exceed individual cognitive capacity. Meanwhile, augmenting performed critical thinking becomes essential for long-term skill de velopment, educational settings, and maintaining human au - tonomy in reasoning. To cultivate performed critical thinking, AI systems need to train and empower user s to practice high-quality critical thinking independently. We encoura ge future research to draw insight from research in educa- tion and learning to identify eﬀective interactive paradig ms or features that scaﬀold critical thinking processes rat her than simply delivering conclusions. For example, numerous work in education research identify the eﬀective use of questioning, classroom debates, and writing could promote critical thinking in students [21]. Future research could e x- plore similar strategies—such as providing structured fra meworks, guiding questions without resolving the analytic al process completely— could support users in developing thei r own critical thinking skills. Table 2. Augmentation Means within the Intellect Augmentat ion Framework by Engelbart [6] Augmentation Means Description Artifacts Physical objects designed to provide for human comfort, for the manipulation of things or materials, and for the manipulation of symbols. Language The way in which the individual parcels out the picture of his world into the concepts that his mind uses to model that world, and the symbo ls that he at- taches to those concepts and uses in consciously manipulati ng the concepts ("thinking"). Methodology The methods, procedures, strategies, etc., with which an in dividual organizes his goal-centered (problem-solving) activity. Training The conditioning needed by the human being to bring his skills in using Means 1, 2, and 3 to the point where they are operationally eﬀective . Manuscript submitted to ACM Designing AI Systems that Augment Human Performed vs. Demon strated Critical Thinking 5 5 CONCLUSION The