artifacts that support augm entation of diﬀerent cognitive domains: 1) consider the Manuscript submitted to ACM 4 Mei et al. desired state after augmentation ; 2) identify the processes for the task ; 3) identify how artifacts can change a process or processes. Based on these augmentation frameworks, we interpret what i t means to augment human critical thinking via AI systems. To augment critical thinking, the distinction bet ween performed and demonstrated critical thinking presents diﬀerent design paths for AI systems. Augmenting demonstrated critical thinking focuses on the quality of the ﬁnal output or collaborative process that is associated wit h individuals’ critical thinking. Augmenting performed critical thinking emphasizes the improvement of independent critical thinki ng activity after the interaction with AI systems. Building upon the deﬁnition of Bloom et al. [2] for c ritical thinking, augmentation of demonstrated critical thinking can be accomplished by improving the ﬁnal output associated with any of the components (e.g. knowledge, comprehension, application, analysis, synthesis, evaluation). For example, current conversational AI systems can explain complex concepts to individuals, enabling more eﬃcient and rapid comprehension, thus augmentation is accomplished. Yet it does not necessarily augment individuals’ performed comprehension skill. On the contrary, overrelying on AI assistance to comprehend complex concepts may negatively impact individuals’ independent comprehension capability as they practice it less on their own. Both forms of augmentation serve important but distinct pur poses in human-AI collaboration. Augmenting demon- strated critical thinking may be particularly valuable in t ime-sensitive contexts, collaborative workﬂows, or when addressing highly complex problems that exceed individual cognitive capacity. Meanwhile, augmenting performed critical thinking becomes essential for long-term skill de velopment, educational settings, and maintaining human au - tonomy in reasoning. To cultivate performed critical thinking, AI systems need to train and empower user s to practice high-quality critical