arXiv:2504.14689v1 [cs.HC] 20 Apr 2025 Designing AI Systems that Augment Human Performed vs. Demons trated Critical Thinking KATELYN XIAOYING MEI, University of Washington, USA NIC WEBER, University of Washington, USA The recent rapid advancement of LLM-based AI systems has acceler ated our search and production of information. While the ad- vantages brought by these systems seemingly improve the perform ance or eﬃciency of human activities, they do not necessarily enhance human capabilities. Recent research has started to examine t he impact of generative AI on individuals’ cognitive abilities, especially critical thinking. Based on deﬁnitions of critical thinking across psychology and education, this position paper proposes the distinction between demonstrated and performed critical thinking in the era of generative AI and discusses the implication o f this distinction in research and development of AI systems that aim to augm ent human critical thinking. CCS Concepts: • Human-centered computing → Human computer interaction (HCI) ; • Computing methodologies → Ar- tiﬁcial intelligence ; Additional Key Words and Phrases: Critical Thinking, Intelligence Augment ation, Social Implications of Technological Design ACM Reference Format: Katelyn Xiaoying Mei and Nic Weber. 2025. Designing AI Systems that Augment Human Performed vs. Demonstrated Critical Think- ing. 1, 1 (April 2025), 6 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn 1 INTRODUCTION Generative AI (GenAI) powered by large language models (LLM s) has boosted productivity in tasks such as writing, coding, information analysis, and decision-making. Howev er, these purported gains in eﬃciency do not always result in better task outcomes or human performance. In addition, t he use of these systems could potentially undermine hu- man capabilities as people develop an overreliance on AI sys tems for tasks ranging from simple to complex [4, 14]. For example, while tools like GitHub Copilot may increase codin g quality and eﬃciency [23], the mechanism of autocom- plete