develop standardized tests or instruments [8–10, 2 2]. In qualitative assessment, researchers such as open-ended qu estions and augmentative writing, as well as online discus- sion [20, 24]. Across these tools, some tend to measure critical disposition [8]—the tendency to think critically—wher eas the others measure performance or application of critical t hinking [22]. To examine the latter, Watson and Glaser [22] asks students to read scenarios of statements and arguments and make judgments on speciﬁc inferences, assumptions, deductions, conclusions based on each scenario. Since these traditional assessment are designed to evaluate individuals’ capabilities in situations where AI assistance is not prese nt, we consider that they measure performed critical thinking. However, qualitative assessment could be used to measure demonstrated critical thinking if we evaluate individuals’ responses to open-ended questions and argumentative writi ng that are produced together with AI assistance. 3 EV ALUATING THE IMPACT OF GENERATIVE AI ON PERFORMED VS. DEMONSTRATED CRITICAL THINKING Recent research raises questions about how generative AI aﬀ ects individuals’ critical thinking abilities [3, 11, 12, 1 5]. Current research often conﬂates performed and demonstrated critical thinking by primarily assessing the latter rather than the former. For example, recent studies that suggest th e use of GenAI improves critical thinking evaluate only Manuscript submitted to ACM Designing AI Systems that Augment Human Performed vs. Demon strated Critical Thinking 3 Table 1. Cognitive activities defined in Bloom’s taxonomy [ 2, 15]. Cognitive activity Description Knowledge Recognition or recall of ideas, material, or phen omena Comprehension Organising, summarising, translating, gen eralising, giving descriptions, and stating the main ideas Application Using acquired knowledge to solve problems in n ew situations Analysis Examining and breaking information into componen t parts, determining how the parts relate to one another, identifying motives or caus es, making infer- ences, and ﬁnding