adaptive augmentations about the position of a conversation. Specifically, we analyse the frequency of aug- mentation in different positions of conversations and different domains covered in the KETOD dataset. We use the RAGate-PEFT (contx-(syn- resp)-ner) with the highest precision and RAGate- MHA (MHA(contx)) with the best overall perfor- mance in the above analysis as representatives for comparison. Figure 3 presents the frequency in different positions. Due to the unequal number of conversational turns, we use the ratio to indicate the relative position. According to the reported results in Figure 3, most human augmentation se- lections happen at the beginning of a conversation. This trend is also effectively captured by both RA- Gate approaches, especially RAGate-MHA. This can be caused by the reason that a conversation is semantically coherent, and once sufficient addi- tional information is provided at the early stage, the value of knowledge augmentation to the later turns is naturally lower. On the other hand, Figure 4 presents the augmen- tation frequency over different domains. We ob- serve that system responses about certain domains are selected more often by humans than other do- mains, such as travel, hotels, trains, flights, service and rental cars, which require access to additional information to assist the suggestion-making, and the domains, like movies, music, media, events that often include entities require enriched de- scription. By looking into the performance of RAGate-PEFT and RAGate-MHA, RAGate-MHA can make aligned selections for humans. However, the RAGate-PEFT does not guarantee the identifi- cation of appropriate augmentation use and often presents fewer augmentations, apart from the travel domain. Hence, by considering both position and 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Number of Selected Augmentations Messaging RentalCars RideSharing Events Buses Media Weather Services Payment Music Restaurants Trains Movies Calendar Flights Hotels Homes Travel Alarm Domains RAGate-PEFT RAGate-MHA Human