domains (Zhao et al., 2020; Lian et al., 2019; Ye et al., 2024). For example, Shuster et al. (2021) demonstrated that us- ing a dense retrieval model (DPR) (Karpukhin et al., 2020) to retrieve relevant knowledge for augmenta- tion can significantly reduce the hallucination rate, according to a corresponding human evaluation. Similarly, Yang et al. (2020) showed that leverag- ing a graph-structured knowledge base can boost the reasoning ability and domain generalisability of task-oriented conversational agents. These achieve- ments of knowledge-augmented techniques high- arXiv:2407.21712v1 [cs.CL] 31 Jul 2024 light a promising direction for enhancing conversa- tional agents and address the current limitations. However, while implementing retrieval augmen- tation to a conversational system for improved re- sponse, we question the necessity of knowledge augmentation for every turn of system responses. To develop effective human-computer conversa- tions, it is essential to provide factual and relevant responses, offer appropriate amount of informa- tion, and not unnaturally drive and shift the con- versation to non-relevant topics (Kasirzadeh and Gabriel, 2023; Miehling et al., 2024). We argue that overusing external knowledge could result in sys- tem responses against these core criteria. Figure 1 presents a conversation example that shows how the system response to a generic user utterance about suggesting activities can vary with and without augmented knowledge. The knowledge-augmented system response is being information conditioned with limited diversity and assuming specific user preferences. In contrast, without the addition of external knowledge, the system response is more diverse and natural in this early stage of a conversa- tion. This indicates that misusing external knowl- edge can lead to problematic system responses and a negative user experience. To address this, we investigate an adaptive retrieval-augmented generation solution for effec- tive conversational systems. In particular, moti- vated by the gate function in long-short term mem- ory models