RAGate, we can effec- tively control the conversation system to make con- fident and informative responses. In addition, by varying the use of knowledge snippets in different relevance levels, we also observe the positive corre- lation between the calculated confidence score and the relevance of augmented knowledge, which can be valuable for many future studies. 2 Related Work In the pipeline of knowledge-augmented generation for a conversation system, two main components are identified: the knowledge retriever and the re- sponse generator. Existing studies have improved conversational responses to different extents by im- proving one or both components (Li et al., 2022; Komeili et al., 2022; Wang et al., 2024). Knowledge Retrieval: Several studies have ex- plored the use of dense passage retrieval techniques (Lewis et al., 2020; Karpukhin et al., 2020) and public search service for effective retrievers (Li et al., 2022). For example, Li et al. (2022) retrieved Wikipedia passages through a database interface and then ranked them according to statistical rele- vance, calculated by TF-IDF, or semantic relevance as per cosine similarity. Similarly, Komeili et al. used a search engine API to retrieve relevant knowl- edge but first transformed the dialogue context into a natural search query using an encoder-decoder model before searching. Joint Optimisation of Retriever and Genera- tor: On the other hand, another thread of re- search studies has explored joint optimisation ap- proaches. For instance, Shi et al. (2023) introduced a retriever-generator architecture that aims to im- prove the performance of Task-Oriented Dialogue (TOD) systems by using a dual-feedback mecha- nism. The retriever identifies relevant knowledge from a database, while the generator uses this in- formation to create appropriate system responses. The feedback from the generator is further used as pseudo-labels to train the retriever to select perti- nent information. Shen et al. (2023) introduced