resp])) for additional insights. We can observe that a higher precision can be achieved but the use of response does not improve the recall performance. These re- sults are consistent with the observed performance of RAGate-PEFT, which further encourages the use of a synthetic response due to the unavailability of a system response in a practical scenario. In addition, we also observe a similar performance drop when including the retrieved knowledge snip- pets for classification. Even though the RAGate- MHA model, using the interaction between context and retrieved knowledge snippets, can achieve the highest recall of 0.5835, it can not outperform the RAGate-MHA using context-only on other metrics. Hence, considering the similar F1 and AUC perfor- mance levels of RAGate-PEFT and RAGate-MHA leads to a trade-off balance between precision and recall for the two groups of approaches. To further evaluate the classification effectiveness of RAGate, in Appendix B, we provide a detailed discussion of a conducted user study that explores whether RAGate can also assess the potential contribution of retrieved snippets when predicting the decision for retrieval augmentation. 5.2 Adaptive Augmentation Analysis In addition to the classification accuracy, we also compare the choice of human workers and RA- Gate approaches in augmenting specific turns. 1https://www.wikihow.com 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Position of Turns in a Conversation 0 50 100 150 200 250 300Number of Selected Augmentations RAGate-PEFT RAGate-MHA Human Labels Figure 3: Frequency analysis of adaptive augmentations about the position of a conversation. Specifically, we analyse the frequency of aug- mentation in different positions of conversations and different domains covered in the KETOD dataset. We use the RAGate-PEFT (contx-(syn- resp)-ner) with the highest precision and RAGate- MHA (MHA(contx)) with the best overall perfor- mance in the above analysis as representatives for comparison. Figure 3 presents