of the most rele- vant knowledge snippet according to BERT-ranker in Table 3. We observe that the use of different amounts of knowledge snippets in different rele- vance levels has a marginal effect on this learned dialogue system. However, we observe a signif- icant difference in the confidence level. We ob- serve that using only the most relevant knowledge snippet enables the Aug-All to suffer less from a lower confidence level. In particular, the applica- tion of RAGate can even increase the confidence level of the conversation system in response gen- eration. This indicates that the confidence score can also correlate with the quality of the augmented knowledge snippets. This observation is further val- idated using knowledge snippets with fifth-ranking positions by BERT-ranker and the use of TF-IDF ranker. We include the full experimental results in Table 4 and attached in the Appendix. These observations indicate the value of adaptive system response augmentation via RAGate in generating high-quality outputs, ensuring faithful responses, and potentially saving retrieval costs. We also show the value of using confidence scores to reflect the contribution of RAG. 6 Conclusions Our study investigates a core research question about whether retrieval-augmented generation is always useful to a conversational system. To an- swer this research question, we propose adaptive retrieval-augmented generation for conversational systems and introduce corresponding gate func- tions, RAGate, for explicit control. A comprehen- sive set of experiments and results show the RA- Gate approaches can effectively identify augmen- tation needs. In addition, RAGate can capture hu- man preference by augmenting the beginning turns of conversations, and RAGate can further identify knowledge augmentation for assisting suggestion- making and enriching description. When applying RAGate to conversational systems, we observe that it can ensure comparable quality of generated re- sponses and enable the system to increase genera- tion