Adaptive Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Conversational Systems Xi Wang1, Procheta Sen2, Ruizhe Li3, Emine Yilmaz4 1University of Sheffield, 2University of Liverpool, 3University of Aberdeen, 4University College London xi.wang@sheffield.ac.uk1, procheta.sen@liverpool.ac.uk2, ruizhe.li@abdn.ac.uk3, emine.yilmaz@ucl.ac.uk4 Abstract Despite the success of integrating large lan- guage models into the development of con- versational systems, many studies have shown the effectiveness of retrieving and augmenting external knowledge for informative responses. Hence, many existing studies commonly as- sume the always need for Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) in a conversational system without explicit control. This raises a research question about such a necessity. In this study, we propose to investigate the need for each turn of system response to be augmented with exter- nal knowledge. In particular, by leveraging hu- man judgements on the binary choice of adap- tive augmentation, we develop RAGate, a gat- ing model, which models conversation context and relevant inputs to predict if a conversational system requires RAG for improved responses. We conduct extensive experiments on devising and applying RAGate to conversational models and well-rounded analyses of different conver- sational scenarios. Our experimental results and analysis indicate the effective application of RAGate in RAG-based conversational sys- tems in identifying system responses for appro- priate RAG with high-quality responses and a high generation confidence. This study also identifies the correlation between the genera- tion’s confidence level and the relevance of the augmented knowledge. 1 Introduction Recently, the advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) has significantly improved con- versational systems, enabling the generation of nat- ural and high-quality responses (Ni et al., 2023). Despite these advancements, recent studies have identified several limitations on the simple use of LLMs to address conversational tasks (Onoe et al., 2022; Huang et al., 2021; Ren et al., 2018). These limitations include the lack of up-to-date knowledge (Onoe et al., 2022), the generation