is rapidly advancing, with notable examples such as OpenAI-o1 (Jaech et al., 2024) and DeepSeek-R1 (Guo et al., 2025). Therefore, a natural research question arises: "Is it possible to introduce reason- ing capability into the retrieval module for more advanced RAG systems?" From a logical structure perspective, existing RAG systems can be mainly categorized into three types: Non-structured RAG simply adopts sparse or dense retrievers. The retrieval is only based on keyword matching or semantic vector similarity, but fails to capture the logical relations between user queries and passages. Tree-structured RAG (Sarthi et al., 2024; Chen et al., 2023; Fatehkia et al., 2024) focuses on the hierarchical logic of arXiv:2502.12442v2 [cs.IR] 26 May 2025 (a) Precision, recall and F1 score (b) Proportions of passages on relevance Figure 1: (a) Precision, recall and F1 score of BGE dense retrievers on MuSiQue, 2WikiMultiHopQA and HotpotQA with different topk parameters, revealing the severe imperfect retrieval phenomenon. The highest recall reaches saturation at 0.45 in our settings. (b) We categorize retrieved passages into relevant, indirectly relevant and irrelevant according to the logical relevance to the query. The relevant passages are exactly the supporting facts, and indirectly relevant passages can hop to the supporting facts via HopRAG while irrelevant passages cannot. A large proportion of retrieved passages are indirectly relevant. Figure 2: Demonstration of hopping between passages. For the user query, BGE dense retriever can only re- turn one of the three supporting facts within topk bud- get. However, lexically or semantically similar passages complement each other. Hopping between passages, by questions as pathways, improves the retrieval accuracy and completeness. passages within a single document, but ignores re- lations beyond the hierarchical structure or across documents. Further, it introduces redundant infor- mation across different levels. Graph-structured RAG (Soman et al., 2024; Kang et al., 2023;