in Figure 1(b), considering a graph composed of passages with logical relations as edges, a large proportion of retrieved passages fall within several hops of the ground truths. Based on these observations, we propose Ho- pRAG, an innovative graph-structured RAG sys- tem. At indexing phase, we construct a graph- structured knowledge index with passages as ver- tices and logic relations as directed edges. Specifi- cally, the passages are connected by pseudo-queries generated by query simulation and edge merging operations. For example, as demonstrated in Fig- ure 2, the pseudo-query "Why does the princess kiss the frog?" connects the raiser passage and the solver passage, as the pivot for logical hops. During retrieval, we employ reasoning-augmented graph traversal, following a three-step paradigm of retrieval, reasoning, and pruning. This pro- cess searches for truly relevant passages within the multi-hop neighborhood of indirectly relevant passages, guided by both the index structure and LLM reasoning. Contributions Our contributions are as follows: • We reveal the severe imperfect retrieval phe- nomenon for multi-hop QA tasks. The results quantify that currently over 60% of retrieved passages are indirectly relevant or irrelevant. To turn "trash" into "treasure", we further em- ploy indirectly relevant passages as stepping stones to reach truly relevant ones. • We propose HopRAG, a novel RAG system with logic-aware retrieval mechanism. As lexi- cally or semantically similar passages comple- ment each other, HopRAG connects the raiser and solver passages with pseudo-queries. Be- yond similarity-based retrieval, it reasons and prunes along the queries during retrieval. It also features flexible logical modeling, cross- document organization, efficient construction and updating. • Extensive experiments confirm the effective- ness of HopRAG. The retrieve-reason-prune mechanism achieves over 36.25% higher an- swer metric and 20.97% higher retrieval F1 score compared to conventional information retrieval approaches. Several ablation studies provide more valuable