varies and show the overall results in Appendix A.8. Ablation on Traversal Model In order to gener- alize HopRAG to scenarios with less computational overhead during retrieval, we supplement results from (1) HopRAG with traversal model Qwen2.5- 1.5B-Instruct (2) HopRAG with non-LLM graph traversal that replaces the reasoning phase in Algo- rithm 1 with similarity matching. Table 5 shows that even without using the reasoning ability of LLM in the graph traversal, HopRAG can achieve 45.84% higher than BM25 and 25.43% higher than dense retriever (BGE), which proves the effective- ness of HopRAG in capturing textual similarity and logical relations for logic-aware retrieval. The introduction of reasoning ability from LLM (GPT- 4o-mini) can achieve about 45.78% higher average score than the non-LLM version, and Qwen2.5- 1.5B-Instruct as traversal model produces compara- ble results with less cost and higher efficiency. We analyze the retrieval efficiency in Appendix A.7. 5 Conclusion In this paper, we introduced HopRAG, a novel RAG system with a logic-aware retrieval mecha- nism. HopRAG connects related passages through pseudo-queries, which allows identifying truly rel- evant passages within multi-hop neighborhoods of indirectly relevant ones, significantly enhancing both the precision and recall of retrieval. Extensive experiments on multi-hop QA bench- marks, i.e. MuSiQue, 2WikiMultiHopQA, and Hot- potQA, demonstrate that HopRAG outperforms conventional RAG systems and state-of-the-art baselines. Specifically, HopRAG achieved over 36.25% higher answer accuracy and 20.97% im- proved retrieval F1 score compared to conventional information retrieval approaches. It highlights the effectiveness of integrating logical reasoning into the retrieval module. Moreover, ablation studies provide insights into the sensitivity of hyperparam- eters and models, revealing trade-offs between re- trieval performance and computational costs. HopRAG paves the way toward reasoning-driven knowledge retrieval. Future work involves scaling HopRAG to broader domains beyond QA tasks; op- timizing indexing and traversal strategies for more complex