the effectiveness of integrating logical reasoning into the retrieval module. Moreover, ablation studies provide insights into the sensitivity of hyperparam- eters and models, revealing trade-offs between re- trieval performance and computational costs. HopRAG paves the way toward reasoning-driven knowledge retrieval. Future work involves scaling HopRAG to broader domains beyond QA tasks; op- timizing indexing and traversal strategies for more complex scenarios with lower computation costs. Acknowledgments This work is supported by the National Key R&D Program of China (2024YFA1014003), National Natural Science Foundation of China (92470121, 62402016), CAAI-Ant Group Research Fund, and High-performance Computing Platform of Peking University. Limitations Despite the benefits of HopRAG, the current eval- uation focuses on multi-hop or multi-document QA tasks. In order to mitigate the risk of per- formance fluctuations when applying HopRAG to other datasets, we should explore its generaliza- tion capabilities across a broader range of domains. Besides, more sophisticated query simulation and edge merging strategies may lead to further im- provements. Finally, though we were inspired by the theories of six degrees of separation and small- world networks, the degree distribution of our pas- sage graph vertices does not exhibit the power-law characteristic. On the one hand, these theories only serve as the motivation and intuitive analogy; on the other hand, exploring more appropriate degree dis- tribution strategies is an interesting research topic. We leave these research problems for future work. Ethics Impact In our work, we acknowledge two key ethical con- siderations. First, we utilized AI assistant to en- hance the writing process of our paper and code. We ensure that the AI assistant was used as a tool to improve clarity and conciseness, while the final content and ideas were developed and reviewed by human authors. Second, we employed multi- ple open source datasets and one open source tool Neo4j