retrieval, it reasons and prunes along the queries during retrieval. It also features flexible logical modeling, cross- document organization, efficient construction and updating. • Extensive experiments confirm the effective- ness of HopRAG. The retrieve-reason-prune mechanism achieves over 36.25% higher an- swer metric and 20.97% higher retrieval F1 score compared to conventional information retrieval approaches. Several ablation studies provide more valuable insights. 2 Related Work Retrieval-Augmented Generation Retrieval- augmented generation significantly improves large language models by incorporating a retrieval mod- ule that fetches relevant information from external knowledge sources (Févry et al., 2020; Guu et al., 2020b; Izacard and Grave, 2021; Zhao et al., 2024; Yu et al., 2025). Retrieval models have evolved from early sparse retrievers, such as TF-IDF (Jones, 1973) and BM25 (Robertson and Zaragoza, 2009b), which rely on word statistics and inverted indices, to dense retrievers (Lewis et al., 2020b) that uti- lize neural representations for semantic matching. Advanced methods, such as Self-RAG (Asai et al., 2023) and FLARE (Jiang et al., 2023) which deter- mine the necessity and timing of retrieval, represent significant developments. However, the knowledge index remains logically unstructured, with each round of search considering only lexical or seman- tic similarity. Tree&Graph-structured RAG Tree and graph are both effective structures for modeling logical relations. RAPTOR (Sarthi et al., 2023) recursively embeds, clusters, and summarizes passages, con- structing a tree with differing levels of summariza- tion from the bottom up. MemWalker (Chen et al., 2023) treats the LLM as an interactive agent walk- ing on the tree of summarization. SiReRAG (Zhang et al., 2024) explicitly considers both similar and related information by constructing both similar- ity tree and relatedness tree. PG-RAG (Liang et al., 2024) prompts LLMs to organize docu- ment knowledge into mindmaps, and unifies them for multiple documents. GNN-RAG (Mavroma- tis and Karypis, 2024)