PIR-RAG: A System for Private Information Retrieval in Retrieval-Augmented Generation Baiqiang Wang1, Qian Lou 2, Mengxin Zheng 2, Dongfang Zhao 1 1University of Washington {wbq@uw.edu, dzhao@cs.washington.edu } 2University of Central Florida {qian.lou, mengxin.zheng }@ucf.edu Abstract Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has become a foundational component of mod- ern AI systems, yet it introduces significant privacy risks by exposing user queries to service providers. To address this, we introduce PIR-RAG, a practical system for privacy-preserving RAG. PIR-RAG employs a novel architecture that uses coarse-grained semantic clustering to prune the search space, combined with a fast, lattice-based Private Information Retrieval (PIR) protocol. This design allows for the efficient retrieval of entire document clusters, uniquely optimizing for the end-to-end RAG workflow where full document content is required. Our comprehensive evaluation against strong baseline architectures, including graph-based PIR and Tiptoe-style private scoring, demonstrates PIR-RAG’s scalability and its superior performance in terms of ”RAG-Ready Latency”—the true end-to-end time required to securely fetch content for an LLM. Our work establishes PIR-RAG as a viable and highly efficient solution for privacy in large-scale AI systems. Keywords: Privacy-Preserving Machine Learning, Private Information Retrieval, Retrieval-Augmented Generation, Homomorphic Encryption. 1 Introduction The rapid proliferation of Large Language Models (LLMs) is fundamentally reshaping how users interact with information. A key catalyst in this transformation is the Retrieval-Augmented Gen- eration (RAG) paradigm [5], which grounds LLMs in vast external knowledge bases, enabling them to provide factually accurate, up-to-date, and contextually relevant responses. From enterprise knowledge management systems to personal AI assistants, RAG has become the de facto standard for building powerful, knowledgeable AI applications. However, this powerful architecture introduces a critical and often overlooked privacy dilemma. The retrieval step, which is the cornerstone of RAG, requires users to send their queries—or high- fidelity vector embeddings of them—to a centralized server that hosts the document