Our comprehensive comparison against two strong baseline architectures—graph-based PIR and Tiptoe-style private scoring—reveals a clear spectrum of design trade-offs. While graph- based methods offer superior raw retrieval accuracy, and private scoring offers fast but incomplete results, we conclude that PIR-RAG’s ”cluster-and-fetch” architecture is the most practically effi- cient solution for end-to-end private RAG tasks. By uniquely combining the retrieval and fetching phases into a single, batched PIR operation, it avoids the prohibitive costs of multiple, sequential private fetches required by other architectures. This work provides a clear, data-driven founda- 7 (a) Comparison of NDCG (b) Comparison of Precision (c) Comparison of Query Time Figure 3: Performance and quality comparison on the MS MARCO dataset. (a) Normalized Dis- counted Cumulative Gain (NDCG) and (b) Precision results illustrate the search quality trade-offs. (c) End-to-end query time for the retrieval phase highlights the raw performance of each architec- ture. tion for developers to select and build the next generation of powerful and privacy-respecting AI systems. References [1] Ishtiyaque Ahmad, Laboni Sarker, Divyakant Agrawal, Amr El Abbadi, and Trinabh Gupta. Coeus: A system for oblivious document ranking and retrieval. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP) , 2021. [2] Benny Chor, Eyal Kushilevitz, Oded Goldreich, and Madhu Sudan. Private information re- trieval. Journal of the ACM , 45(6):965–981, 1998. [3] Alexandra Henzinger, Emma Dauterman, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, and Nickolai Zeldovich. Pri- vate web search with tiptoe. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP) , 2023. [4] Alexandra Henzinger, Matthew M. Hong, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Sarah Meiklejohn, and Vinod Vaikuntanathan. One server for the price of two: Simple and fast single-server private infor- mation retrieval. In 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 23) , 2023. 8 [5] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin,