search quality (0.901 NDCG@10 and 0.850 Precision@10), demonstrating the effectiveness of its fine-grained graph traversal. PIR-RAG provides strong, competitive quality (0.799 NDCG@10 and 0.710 Precision@10), significantly outperforming the Tiptoe-style architec- ture, which trails with the lowest quality (0.513 NDCG@10). Figure 3(c) compares the end-to-end query time for the retrieval phase. Here, Graph-PIR is the fastest at 12.99s, followed by PIR-RAG at 16.84s, and the Tiptoe-style system at 23.82s. However, 6 (a) Setup Time vs. Document Size (b) Query Time vs. Document Size (c) Upload Communication vs. Document Size (d) Download Communication vs. Document Size Figure 2: Scalability analysis of PIR-RAG, Tiptoe, and PACMANN across varying database sizes on the SIFT1M dataset. (a) One-time setup costs. (b) End-to-end query latency. (c) Uplink communication per query. (d) Downlink communication per query. this raw latency is deceptive for a full RAG workflow. For a true RAG application, both Graph-PIR and the Tiptoe-style system would require K additional, expensive PIR queries to privately fetch the document content for the LLM. In contrast, PIR-RAG’s measured time already includes this content fetching step. This architectural efficiency in combining retrieval and fetching makes PIR- RAG’s performance profile highly attractive for real-world RAG deployments, a concept we term ”RAG-Ready Latency.” When this full workflow is considered, PIR-RAG’s single-shot ”retrieve- and-fetch” design becomes significantly more efficient than the multi-step ”retrieve-then-fetch” process required by the others. 5 Conclusion We introduced and evaluated PIR-RAG, a privacy-preserving system for Retrieval-Augmented Gen- eration. Our comprehensive comparison against two strong baseline architectures—graph-based PIR and Tiptoe-style private scoring—reveals a clear spectrum of design trade-offs. While graph- based methods offer superior raw retrieval accuracy, and private scoring offers fast but incomplete results, we conclude that PIR-RAG’s ”cluster-and-fetch” architecture is the most practically effi- cient solution for end-to-end private RAG tasks. By uniquely combining the retrieval and