∪ T +}. In implementation, we leverage an LLM [47] as the OpenIE tool (prompts are shown in Table 22) and a pre-trained dense embedding model [55] for entity resolution. Details can be found in Section D.1. 3.2 Graph Foundation Model (GFM) Retriever The GFM retriever is designed to retrieve relevant documents based on any user query and the constructed KG-index. While the KG-index offers a structured representation of knowledge, it still 4 suffers from incompleteness and noise, resulting in suboptimal retrieval performance when solely relying on its structure [16]. Recently, graph neural networks (GNNs) [67] have shown impressive multi-hop reasoning ability by capturing the complex relationships between knowledge for retrieval or question answering [41, 18]. However, existing GNNs are limited in generalizability, as they are usually trained on specific graphs [40, 37], which limits their application to unseen corpora and KGs. Therefore, there is still a need for a graph foundation model that can be directly applied to unseen datasets and KGs without additional training. To address these issues, we propose the first graph foundation model-powered retriever (GFM retriever), which harnesses the graph reasoning ability of GNNs to capture the complex relationships between queries, documents, and knowledge graphs in a unified and transferable space. The GFM retriever employs a query-dependent GNN to identify relevant entities in graphs that will aid in locating pertinent documents. After pre-training on large-scale datasets, the GFM retriever can be directly applied to new corpora and KGs without further training. 3.2.1 Query-dependent GNN Conventional GNNs [14] follow the message passing paradigm, which iteratively aggregates informa- tion from neighbors to update entity representations. Such a paradigm is not suitable for the GFM retriever as it is graph-specific and neglects the relevance of queries. Recent query-dependent GNNs [78, 11] have shown promising results in capturing query-specific information