a state-of-the-art dense retriever that couples an aggressive residual compression mechanism with a denoised supervision strategy to simultaneously improve the retrieval quality. • RAPTOR [56] is an LLM-augmented retriever that recursively embeds, clusters, and sum- marizes chunks of text, constructing a tree with differing levels of summarization to enable accurate retrieval. • Proposition [6] enhances the performance of dense retrievers by leveraging LLMs to generate a natural language proposition that captures the essential information of the document. Graph-enhanced Methodsdesign a retriever that is built upon a graph structure to conduct effective retrieval and reasoning. • GraphRAG (MS) [9] is a graph-enhanced retrieval method originally proposed by Microsoft. It builds a graph structure from the document corpus and use hierarchical community detection to cluster the documents into communities and generate a summary for each community. The summary together with the original documents are retrieved by the retriever for LLM generation. • LightRAG [15] is an innovative graph-enhanced RAG method that incorporates graph structures into text indexing and retrieval, enabling efficient retrieval of entities and their relationships. It employs a dual-level retrieval system to gather both low-level and high-level knowledge for LLM generation. • HippoRAG [16] is a state-of-the-art, training-free graph-enhanced retriever that uses the Personalized PageRank algorithm to assess entity relevance to a query and performs multi- hop retrieval on a document-based knowledge graph. It can be directly applied to various datasets. Multi-step Methodsare designed to conduct multi-hop reasoning by iteratively retrieving and reasoning over documents, which can be integrated with arbitrary retrieval methods. • Adaptive-RAG [23] proposes an adaptive multi-step retrieval method that can dynamically select the most suitable retrieval strategy based on the complexity of the query. • FLARE [24] introduces a multi-step retrieval method that actively decide when and how to retrieve documents. It also predicts the future