VISA: Retrieval Augmented Generation with Visual Source Attribution Xueguang Ma*1 Shengyao Zhuang∗2,3 Bevan Koopman2,3 Guido Zuccon3 Wenhu Chen1 Jimmy Lin1 1University of Waterloo 2CSIRO 3 University of Queensland Abstract Generation with source attribution is impor- tant for enhancing the verifiability of retrieval- augmented generation (RAG) systems. How- ever, existing approaches in RAG primarily link generated content to document-level ref- erences, making it challenging for users to locate evidence among multiple content-rich retrieved documents. To address this chal- lenge, we propose Retrieval-Augmented Gener- ation with Visual Source Attribution (VISA), a novel approach that combines answer genera- tion with visual source attribution. Leveraging large vision-language models (VLMs), VISA identifies the evidence and highlights the ex- act regions that support the generated answers with bounding boxes in the retrieved document screenshots. To evaluate its effectiveness, we curated two datasets: Wiki-VISA, based on crawled Wikipedia webpage screenshots, and Paper-VISA, derived from PubLayNet and tai- lored to the medical domain. Experimental re- sults demonstrate the effectiveness of VISA for visual source attribution on documents’ origi- nal look, as well as highlighting the challenges for improvement. Code, data, and model check- points will be released. 1 Introduction Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has be- come a key technique for enhancing the reliabil- ity in information-seeking processes (Gao et al., 2024). Traditional RAG pipeline directly gen- erates an answer to a user query from retrieved candidate documents (Chen et al., 2017; Lewis et al., 2020). Yet, it is hard for users to verify the sources and appropriately trust generated an- swers, given that models could produce halluci- nated content (Min et al., 2023; Malaviya et al., 2024). Recent works have introduced the genera- tion with citation paradigm (Gao et al., 2023; Ye * Equal contribution et al., 2024), prompting the model to not only gen- erate answers but also