matically labeled. In the original dataset, the title serves as the question, the context consists of selected sentences from the abstract that support the conclu- sion, and the conclusion itself serves as the long-form answer. Upon downloading the corresponding full-text XML files, we observed that not all PQA entries have available articles on PMC. Specifically, from the original 1k samples in PQA-L, only 115 have full-text matches; PQA-U has 6.45k matches instead of 61.2k; and PQA-A has 51.2k matches from an original 211.3k. The XML files were cleaned to remove figures, tables, captions, references, appendices, and other supplementary materials, retaining only the abstract and main article text. For our experiments, we kept the original question from the dataset and used the cleaned full text. The original “context" sentences were used to evaluate retriever performance, while the generated answers were compared to the original long answers from the conclusions. We used PQA-A’s full-text data to train our semantic chunking models and reserved PQA-L for evaluation. Training data was prepared by splitting PQA-A articles into pairs. To help the model distinguish between sequentially related and unrelated sentences, we applied negative sampling. For each positive pair (sentences occurring consecutively), one negative pair was added, yielding a bal- anced set of 50.3% positive and 49.7% negative samples. Positive pairs were defined as sentences grouped by the human author within the same section of the text. Negative pairs were created by randomly selecting sentences from differ- ent sections within the same document that never co-occur in any section. This design ensures that the model learns to identify contextually related sentences based on human-defined structure. The final dataset contained 93M sentence pairs for training our models. 1 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/research/bionlp/RESTful/pmcoa.cgi/ Breaking It Down 5 Theoriginaldatasetcolumnsincluded:pubid,question,context,long_answer, andfinal_decision. In our augmented version, the schema is updated to include full_text. We