does not align with the broader goal of ranking tasks, which requires assessing the overall relevance of a document to the query. As a result, this misalignment often leads to suboptimal ranking performance. To address these challenges, it is crucial to align token generation with document-level relevance estimation to ensure more accurate, well-rounded retrieval outcomes. arXiv:2504.05181v2 [cs.IR] 24 Apr 2025 SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua, Italy Kidist Amde Mekonnen et al. Direct document-level relevance optimization. Existing ap- proaches aimed at aligning token-level docid generation with docu- ment-level relevance estimation, such as reinforcement learning from relevance feedback ( RLRF), use reinforcement learning to align predictions with relevance judgments through reward mod- eling [76]. However, RLRF introduces significant complexity, re- quiring the optimization of an auxiliary reward function followed by reinforcement fine-tuning, which is computationally expensive and often unstable. To address these challenges, we introduce a direct document relevance optimization (DDRO) method that em- ploys a pairwise ranking approach into GenIR models to improve document retrieval performance. Our approach has two key phases. (i) First, we employ supervised fine-tuning (SFT) to train a language model (LM) capable of gen- erating docids that are most relevant to a given query. (ii) Next, we directly refine the model through pairwise ranking, where the model learns to differentiate between relevant and irrelevant do- cids for a specific query based on labeled data. This refinement ensures that the retrieval system ranks documents based on their relevance, aligning the model more closely with the query. The SFT phase serves as a pretraining step, aligning the model with initial relevance signals from training data and providing a strong foundation for the pairwise ranker to further fine-tune document ranking effectiveness. Experiments conducted on the MS MARCO document rank- ing [3] and Natural Questions (NQ) [23] benchmarks demonstrate the