(SI). Overall, DDRO consistently achieves strong performance with- out relying on auxiliary reward models, reinforcement learning, or dense retrieval signals. Instead, it employs SFT followed by pair- wise ranking optimization to refine early-stage precision while maintaining effectiveness across different ranking depths. 7 Conclusion We introduced DDRO, a novel approach for enhancing GenIR sys- tems by directly aligning docid generation with document-level relevance estimation. This alignment allows GenIR systems to ef- fectively learn to rank and improve accuracy. We experimented with two types of docid designs and designed a lightweight direct L2R optimization algorithm on top of SFT training. Unlike existing RL-based methods, DDRO simplifies optimization through pairwise ranking, eliminating the need for auxiliary reward modeling and RL fine-tuning. Experiments conducted on benchmark datasets demonstrate that DDRO offers a lightweight optimization process while achieving high performance and demonstrating robustness. However, DDRO has limitations that offer opportunities for further improvement. (i) Our evaluation has primarily focused on a subset of the MS MARCO document dataset, leaving its scalability to larger and more diverse corpora, including domain-specific and multilin- gual datasets, yet to be explored. Addressing this limitation will be crucial to assess DDRO’s adaptability in broader applications. (ii) Our current pairwise ranking formulation relies on binary rele- vance judgments (relevant vs. non-relevant), which may limit its expressiveness for queries with nuanced or graded relevance levels. Future work may explore listwise ranking objectives and graded relevance supervision to more accurately capture complex retrieval intents. (iii) Potential improvements could include advanced hard negative mining to enhance relevance discrimination and multi-ob- jective optimization to balance relevance with efficiency, fairness, and diversity. (iv) A comprehensive comparison with scalableGenIR baselines such as RIPOR and PAG remains an avenue for future research to assess DDRO’s scalability and integration potential in large-scale retrieval scenarios. Acknowledgments We thank our colleagues