DeepCodeSeek: Real-Time API Retrieval for Context-Aware Code Generation Esakkivel Esakkiraja1, Denis Akhiyarov 1,*, Aditya Shanmugham 1 and Chitra Ganapathy 1 1ServiceNow, Inc. Abstract Current search techniques are limited to standard RAG query-document applications. In this paper, we propose a novel technique to expand the code and index for predicting the required APIs, directly enabling high-quality, end-to-end code generation for auto-completion and agentic AI applications. We address the problem of API leaks in current code-to-code benchmark datasets by introducing a new dataset built from real-world ServiceNow Script Includes that capture the challenge of unclear API usage intent in the code. Our evaluation metrics show that this method achieves 87.86% top-40 retrieval accuracy, allowing the critical context with APIs needed for successful downstream code generation. To enable real-time predictions, we develop a comprehensive post-training pipeline that optimizes a compact 0.6B reranker through synthetic dataset generation, supervised fine-tuning, and reinforcement learning. This approach enables our compact reranker to outperform a much larger 8B model while maintaining 2.5x reduced latency, effectively addressing the nuances of enterprise-specific code without the computational overhead of larger models. Keywords Retrieval-Augmented Generation, API Prediction, Context-Aware Code Generation, Enterprise Code Completion, Reinforcement Learning, ServiceNow, Real-Time Code Search, Query Enhancement, Fine-Tuning, Embedding, Reranker 1. Introduction Large Language Models (LLMs) have become integral to modern developer workflows through AI- assisted code completion. In specialized enterprise environments like ServiceNow, model effectiveness depends heavily on context quality, particularly for custom APIs called Script Includes. Script Includes in ServiceNow are reusable JavaScript components that serve as a centralized repository for storing functions and classes, enabling developers to encapsulate complex business logic [1]. This paper addresses the critical challenge of context retrieval for LLM-powered code generation in ServiceNow’s code completion and Build Agent tasks. The core problem is accurately retrieving relevant Script Includes from partial developer