2018. RaSeRec: Retrieval-Augmented Sequential Recommendation. In Proceedings of Make sure to enter the correct conference title from your rights confirmation email (Conference acronym ’XX). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 14 pages. https: //doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX ∗Baotian Hu and Haofen Wang are the corresponding authors. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. Conference acronym ’XX, Woodstock, NY © 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM. ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/2018/06 https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX 1 Introduction Sequential Recommendation (SeRec) aims to predict the next items that users would like to adopt, by calculating the matching prob- abilities between their historical interactions and the candidate items [15, 21, 58]. As such, it is essential to learn high-quality user representations from the user’s historical interactions for better rec- ommendation performance [29, 34, 53]. However, with enormous parameters to be optimized, existing SeRec models commonly suffer from the data sparsity issue, i.e., users only interacted with a tiny fraction of the total items [ 16], making it difficult to learn high- quality user representations. Recently, there has been a surge of research interest in leveraging self-supervised learning (SSL) within the realm of SeRec to alleviate the data sparsity issue caused by sparse supervised signals [7, 14, 29, 34, 53]. Generally, it involves two procedures: (1) data augmentation, which generates