RaSeRec: Retrieval-Augmented Sequential Recommendation Xinping Zhao1, Baotian Hu1∗, Yan Zhong2, Shouzheng Huang1, Zihao Zheng1, Meng Wang3, Haofen Wang3∗, and Min Zhang1 1Harbin Institute of Technology (Shenzhen), Shenzhen, China 2Peking University, Beijing, China, 3Tongji University, Shanghai, China zhaoxinping@stu.hit.edu.cn,mengwangtj@tongji.edu.cn carter.whfcarter@gmail.com,{hubaotian,zhangmin2021}@hit.edu.cn Abstract Although prevailing supervised and self-supervised learning aug- mented sequential recommendation (SeRec) models have achieved improved performance with powerful neural network architectures, we argue that they still suffer from two limitations: (1) Preference Drift, where models trained on past data can hardly accommo- date evolving user preference; and (2) Implicit Memory, where head patterns dominate parametric learning, making it harder to re- call long tails. In this work, we explore retrieval augmentation in SeRec, to address these limitations. Specifically, we propose a Retrieval-Augmented Sequential Recommendation framework, named RaSeRec, the main idea of which is to maintain a dynamic memory bank to accommodate preference drifts and retrieve rel- evant memories to augment user modeling explicitly. It consists of two stages: (i) collaborative-based pre-training, which learns to recommend and retrieve; (ii) retrieval-augmented fine-tuning, which learns to leverage retrieved memories. Extensive experi- ments on three datasets fully demonstrate the superiority and ef- fectiveness of RaSeRec. The implementation code is available at https://github.com/HITsz-TMG/RaSeRec. CCS Concepts •Information systems → Recommender systems; Informa- tion retrieval. Keywords Sequential Recommendation, Retrieval Augmentation, Preference Drift, Implicit Memory ACM Reference Format: Xinping Zhao 1, Baotian Hu 1∗, Yan Zhong 2, Shouzheng Huang 1, Zihao Zheng1, Meng Wang3,, Haofen Wang3∗, and Min Zhang1. 2018. RaSeRec: Retrieval-Augmented Sequential Recommendation. In Proceedings of Make sure to enter the correct conference title from your rights confirmation email (Conference acronym ’XX). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 14 pages. https: //doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX ∗Baotian Hu and Haofen Wang are the corresponding authors. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom