improve the quality of user representations. Specifi- cally, it consists of two key components: (1) memory retrieval, which recalls collaborative memories for the input user, and (2) representation augmentation, which leverages retrieved mem- ories to augment user representation. On the one hand, memory retrieval adapts well to dynamic preference drifts with a real-time update memory bank. On the other hand, representation augmenta- tion explicitly leverages retrieved memories, rendering it easier to recall long tails. Figure 1 illustrates the difference between the three SeRec paradigms and the continuation between them. The vanilla SeRec is trained on supervised signals to predict the next item based on the input user sequence [10]. The SSL-Augmented SeRec further enriches the parametric knowledge of the model backbone with SSL signals [55]. Standing on their shoulders, the retrieval-augmented SeRec handles dynamic preference drifts and relieves the heavy reliance on implicit memory by memory retrieval and representation augmentation. Note that the retrieval-augmented SeRec is designed to further perfect existence, rather than completely replacing them. To this end, we propose a novelRetrieval-Augmented Sequential Recommendation paradigm, named RaSeRec, which learns to re- fine user representations with retrieved memories. Specifically, RaSeRec’s training process consists of two key stages: (i) collaborative- based pre-training and (ii) retrieval-augmented fine-tuning. In the collaborative-based pre-training stage, the model is trained with two objectives built upon collaborative signals: (1) recommenda- tion learning, which learns to predict the next item based on input user sequence, and (2) retrieval training, which learns to retrieve memories with the same (or similar) preference as the input user sequence. During the retrieval-augmented fine-tuning stage, we treat <user sequence, target item> pairs as the reference set ex- cept the current input user sequence. We then use the pre-trained model to encode the reference set into a memory bank. Given a user sequence, our