to focus on task execu- tion rather than constantly negotiating roles and responsi bilities [20]. Implicit coordination is particularly bene ﬁcial in time-sensitive environments, where excessive communic ation can increase cognitive load and slow down decision- making [20]. Shared mental models play a crucial role in this process by enabling team members to develop a mutual understanding of both their own tasks, roles, and expected b ehaviours [6], as well as the tasks of others in a team. These models help individuals predict the actions of their t eammates and adjust their behaviour accordingly, enhanc- ing synchronisation and reducing misunderstandings [5]. S ituational awareness further supports team cognition by ensuring that members remain informed about the evolving co ntext of their work, allowing them to react appropri- ately to unexpected changes [5, 6]. In distributed teams, particularly in remote or virtual operations, maintaining these cognitive mechanisms becomes more challenging due to the re liance on mediated communication and asynchronous collaboration. Nevertheless, applying a distributed cogn ition perspective to team-based work allows us to consider how cognitive processes extend beyond individual actors to encompass collective, technology-mediated workﬂows. 3 Areas of Concern in AI-supported Remote Operations AI is rapidly taking on a growing role as decision-making or d ecision-support tool, shaping workﬂows, adapting to change, and operating with decreasing human intervention i n remote operations. This shift challenges traditional models of team cognition, raising critical questions about how operators can interact with AI in remote operations. For both distributed cognition and team cognition, AI (with varying levels of autonomy) will aﬀect how individuals and teams make decisions, how memory distributed across mul tiple entities may inﬂuence operations, as well as how decisions made during fallouts of communication can aﬀect t he distributed cognition. Using intelligent ports as a case study, the following