arXiv:2504.14996v1 [cs.HC] 21 Apr 2025 Distributed Cognition for AI-supported Remote Operations : Challenges and Research Directions RUNE M. JACOBSEN, Aalborg University, Denmark JOEL WESTER, Aalborg University, Denmark HELENA BØJER DJERNÆS, Aalborg University, Denmark NIELS V AN BERKEL,Aalborg University, Denmark This paper investigates the impact of artiﬁcial intelligence integration o n remote operations, emphasising its inﬂuence on both dis- tributed and team cognition. As remote operations increasingly rely on dig ital interfaces, sensors, and networked communication, AI-driven systems transform decision-making processes across dom ains such as air traﬃc control, industrial automation, and in- telligent ports. However, the integration of AI introduces signiﬁcant c hallenges, including the reconﬁguration of human-AI team cognition, the need for adaptive AI memory that aligns with human distrib uted cognition, and the design of AI fallback operators to maintain continuity during communication disruptions. Drawing on theories o f distributed and team cognition, we analyse how cognitive overload, loss of situational awareness, and impaired team c oordination may arise in AI-supported environments. Based on real-world intelligent port scenarios, we propose research dire ctions that aim to safeguard human reasoning and enhance collab- orative decision-making in AI-augmented remote operations. CCS Concepts: • Human-centered computing → User studies; Empirical studies in HCI . Additional Key Words and Phrases: Conversational Surveys, Chatbot s, Interview Probes, Online Surveys ACM Reference Format: Rune M. Jacobsen, Joel Wester, Helena Bøjer Djernæs, and Niels van B erkel. 2025. Distributed Cognition for AI-supported Remote Operations: Challenges and Research Directions. 1, 1 (April 2025), 7 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn 1 Introduction The introduction of artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) into remote operations will have a tremendous eﬀect on operators’ cogn i- tion [31, 37]. Remote operation refers to the process of moni toring, controlling, or supervising systems, machinery, o r environments from a distance using remote user interfaces [ 7, 28],