pieces of information might not be necessary. ELI5 (Fan et al., 2019) is a long-form QA dataset requiring in-depth an- swers to open-ended questions. Due to issues men- tioned in Krishna et al. (2021) such as difficulties of grounding generation in retrieval and evalua- tion, both single-time retrieval and FLARE did not provide significant gains over not using retrieval. From an engineering perspective, interleaving gen- eration and retrieval with a naive implementation increases both overheads and the cost of generation. LMs need to be activated multiple times (once for each retrieval) and a caching-free implementation also requires recomputing the previous activation each time after retrieval. This issue can be poten- tially alleviated with special architectural designs that encode the retrieved documents Dqt and the input/generation (x/y<t) independently. Acknowledgements This work was supported in part by a grant from the Singapore Defence Science and Technology Agency and the IBM PhD Fellowship. We thank Chunting Zhou, Amanda Bertsch, Uri Alon, Hi- roaki Hayashi, Harsh Trivedi, Patrick Lewis, Timo Schick, Kaixin Ma, Shuyan Zhou, and Songwei Ge for their insightful discussions and help with the experiments. References Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Mensch, Jordan Hoffmann, Trevor Cai, Eliza Rutherford, Katie Millican, George van den Driessche, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Bogdan Damoc, Aidan Clark, Diego de Las Casas, Aurelia Guy, Jacob Menick, Roman Ring, Tom Hennigan, Saffron Huang, Loren Maggiore, Chris Jones, Albin Cassirer, Andy Brock, Michela Paganini, Geoffrey Irving, Oriol Vinyals, Simon Osindero, Karen Si- monyan, Jack W. Rae, Erich Elsen, and Laurent Sifre. 2022. Improving language models by retrieving from trillions of tokens. In International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2022, 17-23 July 2022, Bal- timore, Maryland, USA, volume 162 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research , pages 2206–2240. PMLR. Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav