design choices for optimizing retrieval performance, including embedding models and chunking strategies. By incorpo- rating this retrieval process, MusT-RAG enables LLMs to efficiently generate contextually relevant responses, draw- ing on specialized music knowledge to enhance perfor- mance on music-related tasks, all without requiring addi- tional training. Furthermore, we extend the application of RAG beyond inference by incorporating contextual infor- mation during the fine-tuning process. Our empirical anal- ysis reveals that this context-aware training enhances the model’s contextual understanding capabilities, defined as the ability to generate coherent and relevant text within a specific context [5], outperforming conventional fine- tuning approaches. MusT-RAG demonstrated the effectiveness of RAG across all scenarios including in-domain and out-of- domain settings, as well as both fine-tuning and inference stages. By retrieving relevant context information from the database, MusT-RAG effectively addresses the music domain adaptation problem. Our contributions are as fol- lows: i) We propose the MusT-RAG framework, which leverages RAG to retrieve relevant context from a music- specific database for answer generation. ii) We create MusWikiDB, the first comprehensive music-specific vec- tor database for RAG. iii) We demonstrate that RAG-style fine-tuning can resolve the issue of decreased contextual understanding performance with conventional fine-tuning. arXiv:2507.23334v2 [cs.CL] 8 Dec 2025 Figure 1: Overview of our MusT-RAGframework. The retriever searches for relevant information in MusWikiDB based on similarity for music-related queries, and augments the generator’s prompt with this information to generate an answer. iv) We introduce ArtistMus, a benchmark designed to evaluate artist-related questions in text-only MQA tasks, addressing a gap in existing evaluations. 2. MUSIC QUESTION ANSWERING Question Answering (QA) refers to the task of providing an appropriate answer to a given question, which is one of the Information Retrieval (IR) tasks [6]. The task is typically framed as retrieving relevant information from a collection of documents or knowledge