set, such that each triple is uniquely linked to one single passage. ↓Input Queryfrom MuSiQue (Trivedi et al., 2022) (Answer: 1929) When did the location of the basilica which is named for the same saint that the Bremen Cathedral is named for become a country? Online Retrieval Stage 1. Base Retrieval(see §4) For a queryq,C′q=hkbase(q,C)is a list of passages given by the retriever, implemented as BM25, SBERT, or a mix of both. P1Bremen Cathedral,P2Münster Cathedral,P3Basilica of the Sacred Heart P4Saint Justin’s Church, Frankfurt-Höchst,P5Alatri Cathedral 2. Reader(see §4.1) An LLMreadsC′qand summarises knowledge triples, outputting a collectionT′q of triples: theproximal triples. T′1⟨Bremen Cathedral, dedicated to, St. Peter⟩ T′2⟨Alatri Cathedral, dedicated to, Saint Paul⟩ T′3⟨Alatri Cathedral, co-cathedral of, Diocese Anagni-Alatri⟩ T′4⟨Bremen, is located in, Germany⟩ 2.tripleLink(see §4.1) Initial nodesTqfor graph expansion are identified by linking each triple inT′qto a triple inT, using thetripleLinkfunction. T1⟨Bremen Cathedral, dedicated to, St. Peter⟩ T2⟨Alatri Cathedral, dedicated to, Saint Paul⟩ T3⟨Diocese of Macerata-Tolentino-Recanati-Cingoli-Treia, type, co-cathedral⟩ T4⟨Bremen, part of, Germany⟩ 4. Graph Expansion(see §4.2) The primary component of graph expansion is Diverse Triple Beam Search. Here, we explore neighbourhood of a triple (defined as other triples with shared head or tail entities) and maintain top-bsequences (beams) of triples. 5. Gist Memory(see §5.1) Similar to the Reader, an LLM reads a collection of retrieved paragraphsCq(n) and extracts an array of proximal triplesTGq(n), which are stored in the Gist MemoryG(n). T1⟨Bremen Cathedral, dedicated to, St. Peter⟩ T2⟨Alatri Cathedral, dedicated to, Saint Paul⟩ T3⟨Lund Cathedral, dedicated to, Saint Lawrence⟩ T4⟨Bremen, part of, Germany⟩ 6. Reasoner(see §5.2) After updatingG(n), we assess whether it contains sufficient evidence to answer the original question via an LLM reasoning step. Answerable:False Answer or reason:The provided facts do not contain information about the location of the basilica named for St. Peter, nor do they provide any details about