who sought to con- struct their graphs without relying on pre-existing ontologies, or KGs for named entity disambigua- tion. These findings resonate with the growing in- terest in recent literature towards applying such methodologies for automatic, schema-free knowl- edge graph construction (Li et al., 2024; Fang et al., 2024; Gutierrez et al., 2024; Park et al., 2024). As our primary focus is retrieval rather than graph construction, we adopt the triple extraction method- ology from HippoRAG and refer readers to their paper for a more detailed analysis. Our work presents a novel framework for advanc- ing the performance of RAG systems in the context of texts associated with schema-free triples. We follow HippoRAG’s graph construction approach, as exploring graph construction methods falls out- side the scope of this paper. However, this does not imply that our proposed method relies on this specific approach, and we believe that further im- provements in graph construction could lead to additional gains. F G EAR across Different Configurations Table 9 illustrates the performance ofGEAR across varying hyperparameter configurations, including beam search length—applied during graph expan- sion—and the maximum number of agent iterations. As the maximum number of iterations increases, GEAR achieves better retrieval performance. How- ever, consistently with the trends shown in Figure 2, this improvement levels off when setting the max- imum number of iterations at n ≥ 3. In contrast, increasing beam sffearch length above 2 slightly reduces performance. Despite this, GEAR main- tains highly competitive results and significantly outperforms alternative methods shown in Table 2. G Compatibility with Open-weight Models GEAR Results As shown in Table 10, we eval- uate GEAR using popular 7-8B parameter open- weight models, comparing them against a closed- source alternative. On HotpotQA, Llama-3.1-7B surpasses the closed-source alternative, achiev- ing higher recall rates at R@10 and R@15.