both the naive combination baseline and RAGPart. Due to the additional robustness of RAGPart, the difference between intersection-based and majority vote-based aggregation is minimal in that case, unlike in the naive baseline. However, when considering SR over golden documents, Figure 5 shows that intersection-based aggregation causes a larger drop in SR, making it unsuitable for practical deployment. Therefore, we adopt majority vote-based aggregation for the rest of the paper. For more detailed results, see Table 14, 15, 16, and 17 in the Appendix. Viability of the naive combination baseline vs RAGPart as a practical defense: Although the naive combination baseline preserves utility slightly better than RAGPart under majority vote-based aggregation (Figure 5), it fails to defend against any of the considered attacks. This makesRAGPart a practically viable defense. Effectiveness of RAGPart & RAGMask: As shown in Figure 8, both RAGPart and RAGMask effectively defend against all considered attacks, outperforming baseline defenses, with RAGPart achieving slightly better ASR reduction. In terms of utility preservation, RAGMask demonstrates a stronger ability to maintain retrieval performance, as shown in Figure 7. NQ FIQA0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 RAGPart (PEA)RAGMask Datasets % drop in SR Figure 7: Drop in success rate (SR)(lower the better): Figure showcases that both the RAGPart and RAGMask showed smaller drop in utility with RAGMask performing slightly better. HotFlip HotFlip (spread out)Query as PoisonAdvBDGen0 20 40 60 80 100 RAGPart RAGMaskParaphrase % drop in ASR (a) NQ dataset HotFlip HotFlip (spread out)Query as PoisonAdvBDGen0 20 40 60 80 100 RAGPart RAGMaskParaphrase % drop in ASR (b) FiQA dataset Figure 8: Drop in attack success rate (ASR)(higher is better): This figure shows that across different datasets and attack types, both of our proposed methods—RAGPart and RAGMask —consistently maintain robustness. While paraphrasing-based defenses perform well against gradient-based attacks, they fail