URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2310.19156. Wei Zou, Runpeng Geng, Binghui Wang, and Jinyuan Jia. Poisonedrag: Knowledge corruption attacks to retrieval-augmented generation of large language models, 2024. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2402. 07867. 22 RAGPart & RAGMask: Retrieval-Stage Defenses Against Corpus Poisoning in Retrieval-Augmented Generation A. Q&A A.1. Attack 1. Why are the attacks success rates very low for gradient based methods (Hotflip and Hotflip (spread out) attacks? Givenafixednumberofadverserialtokens,gradient-basedattacksthatfollowtheparadigmof(Ebrahimi et al., 2018) attacks work with two hyperparameters, namely the number of top candidates to consider based on the gradient and the number of iterations to the operations hotflip attack for. The higher these values are, the better the ASR is of these attacks. However, this also can lead to higher computations. Due to the number of experiments we were considering, we had limited these hyperparameters to 30 each. Stronger models such as multilingual e5 and GTE large needed more iterations to perform a successful attack. As an ablation, in Table 6, we have provided results (for a smaller test size due to computation constraints, as creating one of these poison can take up-to an hour) for higher number iterations and proposed defense’s efficacy against those poisons. A.2. Defense 1. Generally, indeep-partitionandaggregation(DPA)baseddefenses, don’tpeoplehaveaguarantee onrobustnesswithmajorityvoting-basedaggregation? Whydon’tweseeitinthecaseofRAGPart? Those guarantees on majority voting are given in scenarios where only one decision is made from the aggregation. In contrast, in the case of RAG, generally the topp samples are drawn from the set of documents. Even though theN and k are chosen in accordance with those guarantees, the adversary can end up getting chosen in the topp documents even though it is not the topmost relevant document. While we can restrict ourselves to the top 1 document, it can severely hurt the performance of the system due to the existence of multiple documents and the retriever’s deficiency. 2. What are the limitations of the