that we argue cannot be defended against in the retrieval stage because they can never be classified as poisons until a generation is made. Retrievers are inherently trained to encode only information about semantic similarity and not about the generation condition. For further discussion refer to Appendix A. 8. Conclusion Inthiswork, weproposetworetrieval-stagedefenses, RAGPartandRAGMask, aimedatpreventingadversarial documents from being retrieved in Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems. Unlike generation-stage defenses, which often rely on strong assumptions—such as the self-sufficiency of each retrieved document, the presence of multiple relevant documents, high retriever accuracy, and the availability of significant computational resources—our defenses operate in a computationally tractable manner while maintaining robustness against a variety of poisoning attacks. Moreover, they preserve the utility of the retriever in benign settings. We demonstrate that our methods outperform commonly used retrieval-based defenses, such as paraphrasing and perplexity filtering. Between our two approaches, RAGMask offers better utility preservation and comparable robustness to attacks. However, we identify a tradeoff in computational cost, making RAGPart a more practical choice in resource-constrained scenarios. Finally, while our defenses are effective against many corpus poisoning attacks, we also discuss in the appendix some attack types that remain difficult to detect at the retrieval stage, highlighting important directions for future research on developing defenses against such adversaries. 9. Acknowledgments Pankayaraj, Panaitescu-Liess, and Huang are supported by DARPA Transfer from Imprecise and Abstract Models to Autonomous Technologies (TIAMAT) 80321, National Science Foundation NSF-IIS-2147276 FAI, DODONR-Office of Naval Research under award number N00014-22-1-2335, DOD-AFOSR-Air Force Office of Scientific Research under award number FA9550-23-1-0048, DOD-DARPA-Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency Guaranteeing AI Robustness against Deception (GARD) HR00112020007, Adobe, Capital One and JP Morgan faculty fellowships. Private support was provided by Peraton. 16 RAGPart & RAGMask: Retrieval-Stage Defenses Against Corpus Poisoning in Retrieval-Augmented Generation References Orlando Ayala and Patrice Bechard. Reducing hallucination