Continuous Health Interface Event Retrieval Vaibhav Pandey University of California Irvine Irvine, California vaibhap1@uci.edu Nitish Nag University of California Irvine Irvine, California nagn@uci.edu Ramesh Jain University of California Irvine Irvine, California rcjain@uci.edu ABSTRACT Knowing the state of our health at every moment in time is criti- cal for advances in health science. Using data obtained outside an episodic clinical setting is the first step towards building a continu- ous health estimation system. In this paper, we explore a system that allows users to combine events and data streams from different sources and retrieve com- plex biological events, such as cardiovascular volume overload, using measured lifestyle events. These complex events, which have been explored in biomedical literature and which we call inter- face events, have a direct causal impact on the relevant biological systems; they are the interface through which the lifestyle events influence our health. We retrieve the interface events from existing events and data streams by encoding domain knowledge using the event operator language. The interface events can then be utilized to provide a continuous estimate of the biological variables rele- vant to the user’s health state. The event-based framework also makes it easier to estimate which event is causally responsible for a particular change in the individual’s health state. CCS CONCEPTS •Human-centered computing → Ubiquitous and mobile com- puting; •Information systems → Specialized information re- trieval; • Applied computing → Health informatics; • Comput- ing methodologies → Temporal reasoning. KEYWORDS multimodal event retrieval; knowledge-driven retrieval; health events; health state ACM Reference Format: Vaibhav Pandey, Nitish Nag, and Ramesh Jain. 2020. Continuous Health Interface Event Retrieval. In Proceedings of the 2020 International Conference on Multimedia Retrieval (ICMR ’20), June 8–11, 2020, Dublin, Ireland. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3372278.3390705 1 INTRODUCTION Usually, people become aware of their