aims to identify high-performing configurations by systematically evaluating a subset of the search space. Existing methods range from established HPO algorithms to simple random sampling. Importantly, despite growing interest, the effectiveness of HPO in realistic RAG scenarios has not been rigorously tested. Our work addresses this gap through a comprehensive study of HPO for RAG in a setup that mirrors real-world usage, where a dataset is provided up front for experimen- tation, and unseen queries arrive after deployment. The best RAG configuration is therefore selected by development set performance and evaluated on held out test data. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study that considers RAG HPO in such a setup. The scope of our experiments includes multiple datasets, evaluation metrics and algorithms. To represent diverse use cases, we evaluate across several domains: scientific (Eibich, Nagpal, and Fred-Ojala 2024), biomedical (Krithara et al. 2023), Wikipedia (Rosenthal et al. 2024; Smith, Heilman, and Hwa 2008) and a newly curated enterprise product docu- mentation dataset that we open-source as part of this work.1 Additionally, recognizing that different applications priori- tize distinct performance metrics – such as answer correct- 1http://huggingface.co/datasets/ibm-research/watsonxDocsQA arXiv:2505.03452v3 [cs.CL] 31 Dec 2025 ness or faithfulness – our study evaluates multiple RAG op- timization objectives, implemented through two alternative approaches: lexical overlap metrics and LLMaaJ. Our evaluation compares five HPO algorithms: Tree- Structured Parzen Estimators (TPE) (Watanabe 2023), three greedy variants, and random search. Also included are base- line grid search results for both the development and test sets, over the full search space. 2 These are crucial for es- tablishing upper bounds on HPO performance for RAG, and understanding its generalization capability. While the inclusion of grid search enables a comparison to the best possible result, it poses computational constraints on the size of the explored