An Analysis of Hyper-Parameter Optimization Methods for Retrieval Augmented Generation Matan Orbach, Ohad Eytan, Benjamin Sznajder, Ariel Gera, Odellia Boni, Yoav Kantor, Gal Bloch, Omri Levy, Hadas Abraham, Nitzan Barzilay, Eyal Shnarch, Michael E. Factor, Shila Ofek-Koifman, Paula Ta-Shma, Assaf Toledo IBM Research matano@il.ibm.com Abstract Optimizing Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) config- urations for specific tasks is a complex and resource-intensive challenge. Motivated by this challenge, frameworks for RAG hyper-parameter optimization (HPO) have recently emerged, yet their effectiveness has not been rigorously benchmarked. To fill this gap, we present a comprehensive study involv- ing five HPO algorithms over five datasets from diverse do- mains, including a newly curated real-world product docu- mentation dataset. Our study explores the largest RAG HPO search space to date that includes full grid-search evalua- tions, and uses three evaluation metrics as optimization tar- gets. Analysis of the results shows that RAG HPO can be done efficiently, either greedily or with random search, and that it significantly boosts RAG performance for all datasets. For greedy HPO approaches, we show that optimizing model selection first is preferable to the common practice of follow- ing the RAG pipeline order during optimization. 1 Introduction In theRetrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)paradigm, a generative LLM answers user questions using a retrieval system which provides relevant context from a corpus of documents (Lewis et al. 2020; Huang and Huang 2024; Gao et al. 2024; Wang et al. 2024b). By relying on a dedicated re- trieval component, RAG solutions focus LLMs on grounded data, reducing the likelihood of dependence on irrelevant preexisting knowledge. The popularity of RAG is largely thanks to its modular design, allowing full control over which data sources to pull data from and how to process that data. While advantageous, this modularity also means that practitioners are faced with a wide array of decisions