Beyond Benchmarks: Evaluating Embedding Model Similarity for Retrieval Augmented Generation Systems Laura Caspari laura.caspari@uni-passau.de University of Passau Passau, Germany Kanishka Ghosh Dastidar kanishka.ghoshdastidar@uni- passau.de University of Passau Passau, Germany Saber Zerhoudi saber.zerhoudi@uni-passau.de University of Passau Passau, Germany Jelena Mitrovic jelena.mitrovic@uni-passau.de University of Passau Passau, Germany Michael Granitzer michael.granitzer@uni-passau.de University of Passau Passau, Germany ABSTRACT The choice of embedding model is a crucial step in the design of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) systems. Given the sheer volume of available options, identifying clusters of similar models streamlines this model selection process. Relying solely on bench- mark performance scores only allows for a weak assessment of model similarity. Thus, in this study, we evaluate the similarity of embedding models within the context of RAG systems. Our assess- ment is two-fold: We use Centered Kernel Alignment to compare embeddings on a pair-wise level. Additionally, as it is especially pertinent to RAG systems, we evaluate the similarity of retrieval results between these models using Jaccard and rank similarity. We compare different families of embedding models, including pro- prietary ones, across five datasets from the popular Benchmark Information Retrieval (BEIR). Through our experiments we identify clusters of models corresponding to model families, but interest- ingly, also some inter-family clusters. Furthermore, our analysis of top-𝑘 retrieval similarity reveals high-variance at low 𝑘 values. We also identify possible open-source alternatives to proprietary models, with Mistral exhibiting the highest similarity to OpenAI models. CCS CONCEPTS • Information systems → Evaluation of retrieval results ; Re- trieval models and ranking ; Language models. KEYWORDS Large language model, Retrieval-augmented generation, Model similarity 1 MOTIV ATION Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is an emerging paradigm that helps mitigate the problems of factual hallucination [13] and outdated training data [ 27] of large language models (LLMs) by providing these models with access to an external,