if the collected evi- dence is sufficient. If not, the loop repeats with refined queries targeting information gaps. Once sufficiency is met, a final, evidence-grounded an- swer is generated. The entire inference procedure is detailed step-by-step in Algorithm 1. All LLM agents in our pipeline are guided by meticulously engineered prompts. The full details and examples for each prompt are provided in Appendix B. 3.2 Initial Query Analysis and Adaptive Routing The first stage of our framework is a lightweight yet crucial analysis of the input query. An LLM agent classifies the query into one of four categories to determine the subsequent workflow and resource allocation: • OBVIOUS:For queries whose answers are likely stable and contained within the LLM’s parametric knowledge (e.g., “What is the cap- ital of France?”). These queries are routed directly to a large LLM for generation, by- passing the entire RAG pipeline for maximum efficiency. • SMALL:Simple factual queries that require retrieval but minimal reasoning. A smaller, more efficient LLM is designated for the final generation step. • LARGE:Queries that require retrieval and synthesis of information from multiple sources. A larger, more capable LLM is se- lected for generation. • REASONING:Complex queries that demand multi-hop reasoning, comparison, or deep analysis. A state-of-the-art LLM with strong reasoning capabilities is allocated for the final answer. This initial routing mechanism serves a dual purpose: it acts as an efficiency-enhancing short- Algorithm 1FAIR-RAG Inference (Prompts for agents are detailed in Appendix B.) Require: Set of Generator LLMs G={G small, Glarge, Greasoning}, Hybrid Retriever Hretriever, Document Corpus C= {d1, . . . , dN }, Set of LLM AgentsA={A router, Adecompose, Afilter, Asuff, Arefine} 1:Input:User queryx 2:Output:Final, evidence-grounded answery final 3: query_type, G selected ←A router.classify(x)▷Route 4:ifquery_type==OBVIOUSthen 5:y final ←G selected.generate(x)▷Generate directly from parametric knowledge 6:returny final 7:end if 8:E agg