chitectural innovations (i.e., the iterative refinement cycle) rather than peripheral components. Our full proposed architecture includes features designed for optimal real-world efficiency, such as a hybrid retriever (Section 3.3.2) and an “OBVIOUS” query shortcut (Section 3.2). However, as these features are not standard in the baseline methods we com- pare against, they could introduce an unfair advan- tage. Therefore, to create a level playing field,these two capabilities were systematically disabled during all benchmark experiments for all meth- ods, including our FAIR-RAG variants.Specifi- cally: • All models used a standardizeddense-only retriever. • The “OBVIOUS” query routing was deacti- vated, forcingevery query to pass through the full RAG pipeline. This rigorous alignment ensures that the ob- served performance differences are a direct result of the models’ reasoning and evidence-handling capabilities. Component Configuration: • Retriever:For all methods, we usee5-base- v2(Wang et al., 2024) as the sole dense re- triever, configured to fetch the top 5 doc- uments per query from the standard DPR Wikipedia (Dec. 2018) (Karpukhin et al., 2020) corpus. The index is built using Faiss (Flat type) (Johnson et al., 2019) to ensure accuracy. • Generator Models:To benchmark against a powerful and widely accessible model, we standardize the generator for all baseline meth- ods to be “Llama-3-8B-Instruct”, accessed via API. A key exception is Self-RAG, for which we use its officially released, fine-tuned selfrag-llama-7b model to respect its original design. • FAIR-RAG Configuration:Our experimen- tal setup for FAIR-RAG is designed to ensure a rigorous and fair comparison. We evaluate two primary configurations of our framework: – Uniform Model Configuration:To iso- late the architectural benefits of our iter- ative approach, the FAIR-RAG 1-4 vari- ants exclusively use Llama-3-8B-Instruct for all internal tasks and for the final an- swer generation. This ensures a direct and fair comparison against all baseline methods, which are