a deeper analysis of the framework’s internal mechanics, including a component-wise ablation study (Section 5.2.1) and an examination of the impact of iterative refinement on answer quality and cost (Section 5.2.2). 5.1 Main Results Table 2 presents the main performance comparison of FAIR-RAG and baseline methods across four di- verse question-answering benchmarks. Our frame- work demonstrates state-of-the-art performance, particularly on datasets that require complex, multi- step reasoning. We report four key metrics:Exact Match (EM)andF1-Scorefor lexical accuracy, a script-basedAccuracy (ACC)which measures the presence of the ground-truth answer string in the generation, and our primary semantic metric, LLM-as-Judge Accuracy (ACCLLM). While EM, F1, and ACC are token-based,ACC LLM evaluates semantic equivalence, offering a more robust as- sessment of generative answers. To provide a fine-grained analysis of our frame- work’s iterative capabilities, we evaluate several configurations of FAIR-RAG in Table 2. The FAIR- RAG 1 to 4 variants correspond to the system’s performance with the maximum number of itera- tions capped at 1 to 4, respectively. To ensure a fair comparison against the baselines and to isolate the impact of the iterative refinement cycle itself, these variants utilize a single, consistent genera- tor model (Llama-3-8B-Instruct) across all stages. Conversely, the (Adaptive LLMs) variants repre- sent our full, optimized framework, employing the dynamic allocation of different LLM agents (e.g., small, large, reasoner) based on task complexity, as detailed in our methodology. Our best-performing model,FAIR-RAG 3, demonstrates leading performance within the paradigm of iterative and adaptive RAG. FAIR- RAG significantly outperforms strong representa- tive baselines from its architectural class across all multi-hop benchmarks.It is critical to note that all comparisons were conducted under a unified and controlled experimental setup, ensuring a fair and reproducible evaluation.Within this rig- orous framework, our results not only demonstrate a consistent advantage in our direct head-to-head comparisons but alsoset a