the best-performing GR methods. We identify three critical advantages of text-based docids in dynamic corpora: (i) Semantic alignment with language models’ pretrained knowledge, (ii) Fine-grained docid design, and (iii) High lexical diversity. Building on these insights, we finally pro- pose a novel multi-docid design that leverages both the efficiency of numeric-based docids and the effectiveness of text-based docids, achieving improved performance in dynamic corpus without re- quiring additional retraining. Our work offers empirical evidence for advancing GR methods over dynamic corpora and paves the ∗Corresponding author. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored. For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s). SIGIR ’25, Padua, Italy © 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1145/3726302.3730314 way for developing more generalized yet efficient GR models in real-world search engines. Our code is available at here. CCS Concepts •Information systems → Retrieval models and ranking . Keywords Generative retrieval, Dense retrieval, Dynamic corpora ACM Reference Format: Zhen Zhang, Xinyu Ma, Weiwei Sun, Pengjie Ren, Zhumin Chen, Shuaiqiang Wang, Dawei Yin, Maarten de Rijke, and Zhaochun Ren. 2025. Replication and Exploration of Generative Retrieval over Dynamic Corpora. In Pro- ceedings of The 48th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (SIGIR ’25). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 10 pages. https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1145/3726302.3730314 1 Introduction Traditional information retrieval (IR) systems are based on pipelined “index-retrieval-then-rank” strategies where each module is opti- mized separately [6, 19, 22]. In recent years, a new retrieval para- digm, generative retrieval (GR) has emerged and garnered increas-