level, where a single docid represents the entire document. In contrast, for an n-gram-based docid, any substring at any position within the document can serve as a docid to characterize the document, making it a special case of a multi-docid design. A finer-grained docid design may enable more nuanced matching between queries and documents and pro- vides greater flexibility in docid generation strategies. But it also introduces a higher memorization overhead for the retrieval model. To evaluate the impact of different docid granularities on model generalization, we define various text-based docids as follows: (i) Document-level: The title is used as an abstract representation of the document. (ii) Paragraph-level: Complete paragraphs serve as docids, and the document ranking is determined by the high- est-ranked retrieved paragraph. (iii) Sentence-level: Similar to the paragraph-level approach, but each sentence is treated as a retrieval unit. (iv) N-Gram-level: The most fine-grained docid design, where any continuous text span within a document is used as a docid. We adopt the training and inference techniques proposed in SEAL. Figure 2 demonstrates that the n-gram docid approach achieves the highest Hit@10 performance, significantly outperforming the document-level (title), paragraph-level, and sentence-level baselines. This result highlights the effectiveness of the fine-grained n-gram- based multi-docid design, which enables more flexible and precise query-document matching. Docid lexical diversity.Another important factor of text-based do- cids is lexical diversity. Despite language models using a fixed-size vocabulary, different docids usually exhibit varying levels of lexical diversity. For example, for title-based docids, the model is forced to memorize document-docid mappings rather than generalize. When using titles as docids, the model associates specific phrases (e.g., “Climate Change Impacts”) with fixed document identifiers. During inference, this rigid mapping fails when new documents introduce title variants (e.g., “Global Warming Effects”). In contrast, the high- dimensional space of n-gram docids