Replication and Exploration of Generative Retrieval over Dynamic Corpora Zhen Zhang Shandong University Qingdao, China zhen.zhang.sdu@gmail.com Xinyu Ma Baidu Inc. Beijing, China xinyuma2016@gmail.com Weiwei Sun Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, USA sunnweiwei@gmail.com Pengjie Ren Shandong University Qingdao, China renpengjie@sdu.edu.cn Zhumin Chen Shandong University Qingdao, China chenzhumin@sdu.edu.cn Shuaiqiang Wang Baidu Inc. Beijing, China shqiang.wang@gmail.com Dawei Yin Baidu Inc. Beijing, China yindawei@acm.org Maarten de Rijke University of Amsterdam Amsterdam, The Netherlands m.derijke@uva.nl Zhaochun Ren∗ Leiden University Leiden, The Netherlands z.ren@liacs.leidenuniv.nl Abstract Generative retrieval (GR) has emerged as a promising paradigm in information retrieval (IR). However, most existing GR models are developed and evaluated using a static document collection, and their performance in dynamic corpora where document col- lections evolve continuously is rarely studied. In this paper, we first reproduce and systematically evaluate various representative GR approaches over dynamic corpora. Through extensive experi- ments, we reveal that existing GR models with text-based docids show superior generalization to unseen documents. We observe that the more fine-grained the docid design in the GR model, the better its performance over dynamic corpora, surpassing BM25 and even being comparable to dense retrieval methods. While GR models with numeric-based docids show high efficiency, their per- formance drops significantly over dynamic corpora. Furthermore, our experiments find that the underperformance of numeric-based docids is partly due to their excessive tendency toward the initial document set, which likely results from overfitting on the training set. We then conduct an in-depth analysis of the best-performing GR methods. We identify three critical advantages of text-based docids in dynamic corpora: (i) Semantic alignment with language models’ pretrained knowledge, (ii) Fine-grained docid design, and (iii) High lexical diversity. Building on these insights, we finally pro- pose a novel multi-docid design that leverages both the efficiency of numeric-based docids and the effectiveness of text-based docids, achieving improved