operate with a maximum input sequence length of 512 tokens. Experiments are conducted on 8 NVIDIA A100 GPUs, 1https://github.com/xhluca/bm25s with distributed training enabled for GR methods to accommodate their large parameter sizes. For DPR/DPR-HN, we initialize the document encoder with the checkpoint pre-trained on the initial documents and freeze its parameters during incremental phases. 3.4 Statistical Validation We verified the reliability of retrieval performance. All experimen- tal results reported in Tables 1 and Table 2 achieved statistical significance at 𝑝 < 0.05. 4 Performance over Dynamic Corpora In this section, we analyze the experimental results in dynamic corpora scenario, focusing on how different retrieval approaches perform as the document set expands incrementally. Retrieving initial documents. We investigate how the incremen- tal indexing of new documents affects the retrieval performance of queries corresponding to the initial document set D0, as the document collection grows. Both BM25 and DPR exhibit stable performance in maintaining retrieval effectiveness for initial docu- ments D0. Generative retrieval methods demonstrate better resistance to forgetting. For example, DSI-SE achieves𝐹𝑛 values (0.015 on NQ and 0.010 on MS-MARCO), outperforming dense retrieval approaches. Because there is no additional training step, the mapping from documents to docids remains intact, enabling these models to main- tain consistent performance for the initially indexed documents. However, a potential drawback lies in their limited flexibility when new documents are introduced, as these methods often struggle to index unseen docids effectively unless specific adaptations (e.g., additional training) are employed. Retrieving newly added documents. When retrieving newly added documents from a dynamically expanding document col- lection, both BM25 and DPR demonstrate stable generalization performance (𝐺𝐴𝑛) when retrieving newly added documents, as measured by their ability to adapt to an expanding corpus. BM25 Replication and Exploration of Generative Retrieval over Dynamic Corpora SIGIR ’25, July 13–18, 2025, Padua,