comparable performance over dynamic corpora without re-training. Therefore, our reproducibility study mainly focuses on the mod- els’ ability to generalize to unseen documents without additional training, and on analyzing the factors that influence the perfor- mance in dynamic corpora. Specifically, we first construct two dy- namic corpora datasets based on the NQ [13] and MS-MARCO [1] datasets, by partitioning the entire document collection and user queries into several sets, thereby simulating practical dynamic re- trieval scenarios. We then replicate various GR approaches and compare them with traditional retrieval models, including sparse retrieval and dense retrieval methods. Our findings show that ex- isting GR models exhibit inconsistent performance over dynamic scenarios. In comparison, GR models that use text-based docids outperform those that employ numeric-based docids in terms of effectiveness, and underperform them in terms of efficiency. Building on the insights listed above, we analyze the advantages of text-based docids and limitations of numeric-based docids over dynamic corpora: • Models using numeric-based docids tend to generate docids that are encountered during initial training. • Text-based docids maintain semantic alignment with language models’ pretraining distribution, enabling better generalization with unseen documents. • Text-based docids offer a finer-grained representation of docu- ments, which enhances the model’s ability to generalize to unseen documents. • Text-based docids have higher lexical diversity, which helps miti- gate overfitting to the initial training set. Based on these observations, we design a novel multi-docid GR model that uses numeric-based docids but avoids the tendency to generate previously seen docids. It achieves finer granularity and larger docid size, and demonstrates superior performance and efficiency in dynamic corpora scenario. In summary, our main contributions are as follows: (i) We in- troduce a comprehensive evaluation of existing GR approaches over dynamic corpora, focusing on their ability to generalize to unseen documents without additional