decoding (e.g., FM-index traversal for n-gram matching), (ii) memory inefficiency from storing massive text fragments, and (iii) incompatibility with non-textual data (e.g., tables, images). Conversely, numeric-based docids offer inherent advantages in storage efficiency (fixed-length numbers) and decoding speed (simple token generation), but their fixed semantic encoding limits dynamic adaptability. This leads to the natural question of how to combine the advantages of both methods to design a docid scheme that is both efficient and effective. Previous analyses highlight several key factors for improving GR performance in dynamic corpus scenarios: (i) The docid should consider the semantic familiarity to the GR model and avoid using overly unfamiliar docids. (ii) The docid can be designed with finer granularity. (iii) The docid can be designed with higher lexical diversity. Based on these insights, we explore techniques to improvenumeric- based docid approaches. Our methods focus on three key aspects: (i) We investigate how vocabulary size influences the performance of numeric-based docids and conclude that a larger vocabulary size leads to improved performance. (ii) We explore a finer-grained docid design by assigning a docid to each chunk of a document rather than a single docid to the entire document. (iii) We address the semantic familiarity problem by assigning known docids to new documents and introducing a novel inference strategy to enhance the model’s ability to generalize to unseen documents. Combining these three aspects, we propose the Multi-Docid Generative Retrieval (MDGR) framework, a novel numeric-based docid design that retains the efficiency advantages of previous approaches while addressing their limitations in dynamic corpora scenarios. 6.1 Docid design of MDGR Optimizing vocabulary size. Building on the insights from anal- ysis of lexical diversity of text-based docid, we hypothesize that expanding the decoding dimension for number-type docids in GR models could similarly influence their adaptability to dynamic cor- pora.