Retrieval-Augmented Recommendation Explanation Generation with Hierarchical Aggregation Bangcheng Sun, Yazhe Chen, Jilin Yang, Xiaodong Li, Hui Li Key Laboratory of Multimedia Trusted Perception and Efficient Computing, Ministry of Education of China, Xiamen University, China {36920231153231, 23020241154376, 22920212204262}@stu.xmu.edu.cn {xdli, hui}@xmu.edu.cn Abstract Explainable Recommender System (ExRec) provides transparency to the recom- mendation process, increasing users’ trust and boosting the operation of online services. With the rise of large language models (LLMs), whose extensive world knowledge and nuanced language understanding enable the generation of human- like, contextually grounded explanations, LLM-powered ExRec has gained great momentum. However, existing LLM-based ExRec models suffer from profile deviation and high retrieval overhead, hindering their deployment. To address these issues, we propose Retrieval-Augmented Recommendation Explanation Generation with Hierarchical Aggregation (REXHA ). Specifically, we design a hierarchical aggregation based profiling module that comprehensively considers user and item review information, hierarchically summarizing and constructing holistic pro- files. Furthermore, we introduce an efficient retrieval module using two types of pseudo-document queries to retrieve relevant reviews to enhance the generation of recommendation explanations, effectively reducing retrieval latency and improving the recall of relevant reviews. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms existing approaches by up to 12.6% w.r.t. the explanation quality while achieving high retrieval efficiency. 1 Introduction The exponential growth of digital content and products across online platforms (e.g., Yahoo News, Amazon and TikTok) has intensified the information overload problem [1], where users face over- whelming challenges in identifying relevant items amid vast information. To mitigate cognitive burdens in decision-making, Recommender System (RecSys) has emerged as an essential tool and is prevalently incorporated into many online services. RecSys effectively filters irrelevant information and delivers tailored recommendations. This way, it not only helps users better find their desired targets but also facilitates the operation of platforms. Hence, RecSys has attracted much attention