LLM to generate review summa- rization and similar processes are conducted in parallel for raw reviews. This is similar to a k-ary-tree merging operation, where one raw review takes part in only one summarization. Assume there are m raw reviews at the bottom level. Then, after raw review summarization, there are m/k brief but more information-dense summaries and they will be engaged in the next step of hierarchical aggregation. 2.2.2 Hierarchical Aggregation When constructing an item profile for an item, after generating summaries from raw reviews, we concatenate every p summaries into a group and conduct summarization similar to the summarization operation at the bottom level. This process is conducted recursively until reaching the root level where we only have one summarization (i.e., the constructed item profile), forming a hierarchical aggregation tree as shown in Fig. 1. When integrated into the hierarchical aggregation process, the refined summaries from each level enable progressive fusion of granular features into the holistic profile. Similarly, a user profile can be constructed in a hierarchical manner. 2.3 Review Retrieval for Data Augmentation 2.3.1 Review Retrieval Augmentation Hierarchical aggregation only utilizes reviews directly related to the target user/item to construct the user/item profile. In practice, users often refer to the reviews of other similar items or consider reviews made by people with similar preferences before making decisions. Such reviews may contain auxiliary and use information that may support their decisions. Based on the above observation, REXHA leverages an embedding model f as the semantic encoder to transfer raw review summaries obtained in Sec. 2.2.1 into representation vectors. Then, for a target user-item interaction that requires explanation generation, REXHA uses a retrieval query to find the most relevant raw review summaries based on cosine similarity. The query construction method will be introduced in the next section. Finally,