to model recommendation process [2]. Constructing a user-item interaction graph and then capturing interaction patterns from the perspective of graph semantics and structure is a prevalent method, providing insights into understanding user preferences and item characteristics [13]. Hence, in REXHA , we leverage the capability of Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) to encode collaborative information in the user-item interaction graph into latent embeddings, 2 Query Prompt Template Generated Explanation Raw Reviews ... Summarizer Summaries ... Semantic Encoder Average PoolerQuery Semantic Encoder Average Pooler Summaries ... Summarizer Raw Reviews ... Query Construct Item ProfileUser Profile Semantic Encoder A Summary of User-Item Semantic Encoder All Summaries ... ... ... ... ... Summarizer ... Retrieved ReviewAll Reviews ... ... ... ... ... LLM Vector storage Query Ground Truth Explanation Interaction graph User Embedding Item Embedding Projector GNN User Embedding Item Embedding Collaborative Signal Extraction Summarizer Raw Reviews … Summarizer … Summaries User Profile Item Profile Hierarchical Aggregation Figure 1: Overview of REXHA . It contains three key components:(1) Collaborative Signal Extrac- tion provides collaborative filtering information to LLMs. (2) Hierarchical Aggregation compresses and summarizes reviews layer by layer, finally construct textual profiles for user/item. (3)Review Retrieval module retrieves relative reviews to enhance LLM generating explanations. complementing later LLM-based explanation generation by incorporating collaborative signals in recommendation scenarios. To be specific, we adopt LightGCN [14] to encode the collaborative information: e(l+1) u = X i∈Nu 1p |Nu| p |Ni| e(l) i , e(l+1) i = X u∈Ni 1p |Ni| p |Nu| e(l) u (1) where e(l) u and e(l) i denote the embedding of user u and item i after l-layer propagation, respectively. Nu denotes the set of users who have interacted with item i, and Ni indicates the set of items interacted by user u. The user and item embeddings are extracted by averaging