XRec incorrectly explains that the restaurant atmosphere is not as good as expected, failing to capture true interests, while G-Refer’s explanation is too general, focusing only on common aspects such as "food service" without touching on users’ preferences for specific food or atmosphere. This illustrates that the profile generated by aggregated reviews captures richer and more accurate personalized information than that generated by randomly sampled reviews. 15 Tab. 6 provides another case that leverages retrieved similar reviews to enrich explanations. While the user profile and item profile simply state their preference for emotionally rich "romance genres", the retrieved reviews reveal deeper elements that appeal to users with similar interests, such as “intense moments”, “satisfying endings”, and “captivating love stories”. Our model successfully incorporates these signals, capturing both emotional depth and structural highlights that users may value. In contrast, the explanations generated by XRec are more vague, and G-Refer only captures "intense" information and introduces irrelevant information about the author, which is not relevant to the result. Together, these two cases demonstrate how retrieved similar reviews and hierarchical aggregate profiles complement each other to produce accurate, diverse, and user-consistent explanations. Table 5: A case from Yelp, which shows how REXHA leverages HA profile to generate better explanations. Inputs User Profile Enjoys craft beers, lively atmospheres, diverse food and drink options, and family-friendly attrac- tions with interactive experiences. Item Profile Users who enjoy high-quality seafood and steaks, seek good service and value, and appreciate unique dining experiences will enjoy McCormick & Schmick’s. Those looking for affordable yet tasty options and a good ambiance during special event days will also find it enjoyable. Retrieved Reviews ["The user would enjoy the business because it offers a wide variety of options from cheap produce, meat, and seafood to diverse dining choices with the added convenience