Unlike prior methods (e.g., XRec and G-Refer) that con- struct incomplete profiles via random review sampling, we propose a hierarchical review aggregation module to systematically encode all user/item review data. This approach miti- gates profile deviation (C1) by capturing nuanced user preferences and item characteristics through multi-layered summarization, ensuring LLMs generate explanations grounded in comprehensive contextual signals. • Efficient Retrieval via Pseudo-Document Queries: To overcome the computational bottle- necks of retrieval (C2), we introduce aggregated pseudo-document query generation. By synthesizing latent queries from user/item reviews, REXHA efficiently retrieves semantically rich opinions from vectorized historical reviews, drastically reducing latency compared to prior LLM-powered ExRec. • Extensive and Rigorous Evaluation: We have conducted extensive experiments on public datasets. The results demonstrate that REXHA achieves significant performance gains, outperforming a range of state-of-the-art baselines by up to 12.6% on recommendation explanation generation. 2 Our Method R EXHA Fig. 1 provides an overview of REXHA . The primary idea of REXHA is to efficiently retrieve and harness reviews relevant to the target user-item interaction to enhance the credibility and personaliza- tion of the generated explanation. To achieve this, REXHA uses three main modules, collaborative signal extraction (Sec. 2.1), hierarchical aggregation based profiling (Sec. 2.2) and review retrieval for data augmentation (Sec. 2.3), to prepare rich and beneficial background data for the target user-item interaction that is further fed into LLM for retrieval-augmented explanation generation (Sec. 2.4). 2.1 Collaborative Signal Extraction Collaborative information is crucial to model recommendation process [2]. Constructing a user-item interaction graph and then capturing interaction patterns from the perspective of graph semantics and structure is a prevalent method, providing insights into understanding user preferences and item characteristics [13]. Hence, in REXHA , we leverage the capability of Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) to encode collaborative information in the user-item interaction graph into