leverages an embedding model f as the semantic encoder to transfer raw review summaries obtained in Sec. 2.2.1 into representation vectors. Then, for a target user-item interaction that requires explanation generation, REXHA uses a retrieval query to find the most relevant raw review summaries based on cosine similarity. The query construction method will be introduced in the next section. Finally, top-q relevant raw review summaries to the target user-item interaction are listed as data augmentation for generating explanations. 2.3.2 Retrieval Query Construction Unlike general information retrieval scenarios, the recommendation system domain inherently lacks readily available natural language queries that can systematically retrieve review-based evidence for specific user-item interactions to enhance later explanation generation. In conventional recommenda- tion frameworks, there exists no straightforward mechanism to translate implicit user preferences and item characteristics into search-compatible queries that directly enable contextual raw review summaries retrieval. To address this problem, we propose two types of pseudo-document query construction strategies: the latent representation query and the profile query. The former leverages the global information of the user-item pair, aiming to retrieve diverse and informative reviews. The latter uses user and item profiles—constructed to emphasize high-frequency, long-term preference attributes—as queries. By retrieving based on these specialized profiles, the resulting reviews exhibit a more concentrated semantic distribution and are more closely aligned with the underlying preferences of the user or item. Latent Representation Query A latent representation query encodes the information of the target user-item interaction. Concretely, REXHA encodes all raw reviews of the target user and item using the embedding model f (semantic encoder) and then aggregates all the encoded representations as 5 the latent query for the target user-item interaction: ˆru i = f (ru i ), ˆrv j = f (rv j ), (4) ˆRu = {ˆru 1 , ˆru 2 , . .