Furthermore, our proposed Parametric RAG pipeline is in parallel with existing in-context methods. As shown in our experiments, combining our methods with in-context RAG could produce even better performance on the benchmark datasets. This indicates that parametric knowledge injection could be a fruitful direction for the future development of the RAG system. In summary, this paper makes the following key contributions: • We propose Parametric RAG, a new RAG paradigm that integrates external knowledge directly into LLM’s parameters. • We propose an offline method to build parametric document rep- resentation and a Retrieve-Update-Generate pipeline to conduct Parametric RAG on the fly. • We conduct extensive experiments to compare the state-of-the- art in-context RAG methods with our method to demonstrate the potential of Parametric RAG in terms of effectiveness and efficiency. 2 Related Work Large language models have shown remarkable performance across diverse applications. However, their inherent knowledge often proves insufficient for tackling knowledge-intensive tasks, under- scoring the necessity of integrating external knowledge for robust performance in these contexts. One prominent approach to address this gap is Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), which improves LLMs by integrating relevant external knowledge sources [4, 8, 12, 16, 18, 23, 37, 42, 50, 51]. In the traditional RAG framework, an external retriever [9, 27, 34, 40, 41, 43, 60] or a more complex re- trieval system [ 24, 35] retrieves relevant documents based on a query. These documents are then appended to the LLM’s input con- text, allowing the LLM to leverage knowledge beyond its training data [23]. Parametric Retrieval Augmented Generation Conference, Under Review, Building upon the traditional RAG framework, several exten- sions have been proposed to improve its effectiveness and efficiency. One such extension, Adaptive RAG [17, 52], introduces adaptive retrieval strategies that actively adjust the retrieval pipeline based on the complexity of the