Thus, it can serve as a natural boost to existing RAG methods without breaking their system pipelines. 4 Experimental Setup In this section, we detail the experimental framework used to evalu- ate Parametric RAG. We begin with the introduction of our selected benchmark datasets(§4.1). Next, we introduce our selected baseline methods (§4.2) and implementation. Finally, we provide implemen- tation details regarding our parameterization method, retrieval strategy, and inference settings (§4.3). 4.1 Benchmarks and Metrics We evaluate our approach on diverse benchmark datasets, each designed to assess different reasoning capabilities, such as multi- hop reasoning and commonsense inference. Specifically, we select the following datasets: • 2WikiMultihopQA (2WQA) [13] is a dataset designed to test the model’s ability to perform multi-hop reasoning by integrating information across multiple Wikipedia passages. • HotpotQA (HQA) [56] also focuses on evaluating multi-hop reasoning skills, requiring models to combine information from different contexts to address a single query. • PopQA (PQA) [28] assesses factual question answering, chal- lenging the model’s ability to recall accurate knowledge and resolve ambiguity in entity representation. • ComplexWebQuestions (CWQ)[47] involves answering multi- step, web-based questions, further testing the model’s capacity to retrieve and reason over large-scale web content. For evaluation metrics, we use the F1 score to evaluate performance on question-answering tasks, as it captures the balance between precision and recall by accounting for partially correct answers. Both 2WQA and HQA categorize questions based on reasoning types, with 2WQA divided into four categories and HQA into two. To comprehensively compare the performance of P-RAG and other RAG baselines across different reasoning tasks, our main experi- mental table (Table 1) presents the performance for each sub-task separately, using the first 300 questions from each sub-dataset. Ta- ble 1 also presents the overall performance of each RAG baseline on the two datasets in the