when applied to Qwen-2.5-1.5B. Our analysis suggests that Qwen- 2.5-1.5B tends to produce highly confident answers regardless of uncertainty. Since these dynamic RAG frameworks rely on confi- dence to trigger retrieval, they rarely activate on Qwen-2.5-1.5B. This highlights a key limitation of uncertainty-based triggers and underscores the need for more robust mechanisms in dynamic RAG frameworks. 5.2 Impact of LoRA Weight Initialization To investigate the impact of LoRA weight initialization strategies on our proposed Parametric RAG framework, we conducted an ablation study using two initialization strategies: (1) Random Initialization (P-RAG Rand.): The LoRA weights are initialized randomly without any pretraining or warm-up, which represents the default setting for our proposed Parametric RAG approach. All the Parametric RAG experimental results reported in other sections in this paper are based on this setting. (2) Warm-Up Initialization (P-RAG Warm.): LoRA weights are pre-trained using a set of 600 sampled question-answer (QA) pairs. These QA pairs are selected from the training sets of our chosen benchmarks and are distinct from the test questions to ensure no data leakage. The pre-training process involves training the LoRA parameters using the standard next-token prediction method on the concatenated tokens of the QA pairs. The specific implementation follows Section 4.3, and the pre-trained LoRA parameters are saved as initialization for the Document Parameterization phase9. The experimental results in Table 2 clearly indicate that across different model series and scales, as well as diverse datasets, the warm-up initialization strategy (P-RAG Warm.) consistently out- performs random initialization (P-RAG Rand.). This demonstrates the effectiveness of task-aware pretraining in enhancing the Para- metric RAG pipeline. Furthermore, the observed improvements across varying model sizes confirm the scalability and generality of this approach. The superior performance of the warm-up ap- proach in downstream tasks can be attributed to two key factors. First, it effectively