[items] are present. ", "None of the stages... ". Note:This normalization appliesonly when the reference answer itself is unanswerable/none/empty. Normalizationtakes precedence over all other ruleswhen determining equivalence. —Important Rules— • If the candidate answer fails to provide an answer (e.g., says "I don’t know")when the reference is answerable, it must receive ascore of 0. • If the reference answer is unanswerable/none/empty, the candidate answer must produce an unanswerable-equivalent expression (as normalized above) to receivescore 1. If the candidate gives any substantive or fabricated specific content, assignscore 0. • If the candidate answer overgeneralizes, omits key elements, or adds unrelated information not supported by the reference, the score must be0, even if part of it is correct. MLDocRAG: Multimodal Long-Context Document Retrieval Augmented Generation Conference acronym ’XX, June 03–05, 2018, Woodstock, NY • Only when the candidate answer coversall essential factual elementsof the reference answer without introducing unrelated content, should the score be1. —Scoring Criteria— Score = 1 (Correct): • The candidate answer accurately matches the factual content and level of detail of the reference answer. Minor wording differences are acceptable if the meaning is equivalent. • If the reference answer is "Unable to answer" / "Not answerable" / "None" / empty, and the candidate provides an unanswerable- equivalent expression (after normalization). Score = 0 (Incorrect): • The reference answer is answerable, but the candidate says any unanswerable-equivalent expression (including negative- existence). • The reference answer is answerable, but the candidate gives an incorrect, incomplete, or irrelevant answer. • The reference answer is unanswerable/none/empty, but the candi- date provides any substantive or fabricated answer. B Details of Visual Noise Filtering We employ clip-vit-base-patch32 to classify visual chunks via zero-shot inference. Based on their semantic relevance to the RAG task, visual elements are partitioned into two sets: those retained for indexing and