higher weights to items appearing at the top of the list. By using NDCG, we aim to assess the relevance of predictions in a way that prioritizes higher-ranked items.Mean Average Precision (MAP): It calculates the mean of the Average Precision (AP) scores for all queries, where AP considers the pre- cision at each relevant item in the ranked list. With MAP, we aim to quantify how effectively the model retrieves relevant results across different scenarios. F1-score: The F1-score, a harmonic mean of precision and recall, is employed to balance the trade-off between false positives and false negatives. 8 https://huggingface.co/jinaai/jina-reranker-v2-base-multilingual 10 J. Singh and C. Merola 4.3 Generation evaluation Generation evaluation was assessed through theMSMarco dataset using a ques- tion answering task. While for the Late Chunking technique, the scoring on the generation respects the retrieval performance, for the Contextual Retrieval Setup, chunks are enriched with additional generated context from the document that influences the output generation of an LLM. Although some differences were measured in the scorings, they were not notable enough to assess a significant difference in generation performance. 5 Results and Analysis 5.1 Traditional Retrieval Versus ContextualRankFusion Retrieval From the results in Table 2, and especially focusing the attention on the best performing embedding model Jina-V3, we show that Fixed-Window Chunking versus Semantic Chunking techniques do not differ much in terms of performance ornotatall,whilethefirstonebeingfareasierimplementableandfasterthanthe second one. A more important finding underlines in the Rank Fusion technique. This technique shows improved results especially when chunks are enriched with additional context from the document. In this way,BM25 matches search terms in both segments and contexts, leading to very good results. It is important to note that adding the final reranking step in the workflow is crucial to leverage this potential and see consistent improvements in the results. 5.2 Traditional Retrieval