digest retrieved documents, and draft the response. Instead of a linear process such as Fusion-in-Decoder [17] or GINGER [20], RAG systems are in- creasingly complex and dynamic, with multiple rounds of retrieval [1, 9, 13, 39, 47]. A static experimental environment is not sufficient for these systems, be- cause the queries are not known up front. Tools for offline query processing need to be modified to include the generative components or wrapped to provide an API that can accommodate online querying. However, wrapping offline retrieval pipelines with reasonable query and resource efficiency is non-trivial, and this task is orthogonal to implementing a retrieval model. We introduce an open- source package,RoutIR, that allows users to provide pipelines composed of the latest retrieval models as an HTTP API for use with downstream applications like dynamic RAG systems. RoutIRsupports (1) simple service configuration for common model archi- tectures without additional coding; (2) minimal wrappers for incorporating new models; (3) dynamic batching and queuing for concurrent and asynchronous requests; (4) fast and robust caching in memory and Redis; 3 and (5) reliable and easy-to-use HTTP API endpoints that do not require additional client-side packages. Such capabilities provide fast and reproducible experimental environ- ments for RAG research, while enabling new retrieval models to be incorporated easily with minimal engineering overhead. WhileRoutIRis designed primarily for academic research, which does not implement various security measures for an API service, it can be used for internal prototyping in industry to spin up a proof-of-concept application. 3 https://redis.io/ RoutIR: Fast Serving of Retrieval Pipelines for RAG 3 RoutIRhas been deployed in various research settings where it has been demonstrated to be robust and reliable. During JHU SCALE 2025, 4 a ten-week research workshop at Johns Hopkins University attended by more than 50 re- searchers working on long-form RAG,RoutIRwas able