mentation where the queries are fixed. RAG pipelines like Open Deep Research6 can dynamically generate queries to incrementally gather information for genera- tion. There are two ways to support such iterative RAG pipelines: (re-)implement the generative component within the IR platform or provide an API that can be dynamically queried by an external generative library. PyTerrier-RAG [31] takes the former approach, whereasRoutIRtakes the latter by dynamically accepting and serving queries using state-of-the-art IR methods, including those implemented by platforms designed for offline use. Rather than reimplement- ing the underlying retrieval methods and RAG workflows,RoutIRprovides a streamlined approach to wrap existing methods, compose them into retrieval pipelines, and query them online through a HTTP API. This allowsRoutIR to serve the fast-growing RAG community by seamlessly embedding retrieval models into RAG platforms instead of requiring that RAG methods be reimple- mented within an academic IR platform. Production search platformslike ElasticSearch 7, OpenSearch8, and Vespa9 pro- vide HTTP APIs for first-stage retrieval and reranking over collections that have been indexed by those platforms. These tools are complex, closely integrated with their underlying inverted index and vector database data structures, and opti- mized for production use. These design choices make extending the platforms with new methods non-trivial. In contrast,RoutIRprovides a simple API and flexible method classes that make adding new retrieval models straightforward. 3RoutIRArchitecture RoutIRis a thin, robust wrapper around retrieval models that provides online service capabilities that are orthogonal to the retrieval models themselves. The end user submits an HTTP request to aRoutIRendpoint for each search query, e.g.,{"service":"qwen3-neuclir","query":"where is machu picchu","limit":15 }, and receives the retrieval results of the requested 15 documents in a dictionary of document IDs and scores. A separate request delivers the document data associated with the document ID. The core design principle ofRoutIRis to be as lightweight as possible