to generate the pipeline as part of an agentic workflow. 4 Serving Models usingRoutIR In this section, we describe howRoutIRcan be configured and extended to serve different retrieval models. This serves as an introduction to all the fea- tures provided byRoutIR; readers are encouraged to explore further in the documentation and the source code on GitHub. 4.1 Resource and Setup Computing resources needed to run the bareboneRoutIRare very minimal, for example, a single processor with 200 MB memory can host aRoutIRin- stance with only Relay Engine. However, resources for hosting each retrieval model depend on its own requirements. For example, it is more efficient to host a dense retrieval model with a GPU for encoding the queries; Faiss indexes usu- ally require a larger system memory to hold the in-memory index for better performance. RoutIRcan be installed throughpiporuv. Please refer to the documen- tation for more details. It can also be hosted with a command as simple asuvx routir config.jsonwithout explicit package installation. 4.2 Server Configuration RoutIRuses a JSON file to express the configuration for the services with two primary blocks:servicesandcollections. Theservicesblock is a list of dictionaries that specifies all the Engines to initialize on the endpoint. Thecollectionsblock specifies a list of document collections that the end- point will serve based on the document IDs requested. The additional top-level server importsandfile importsfields allow the user to specify external RoutIRendpoints and custom Python scripts to include during the initial- ization. All available services on each endpoint inserver importsare automat- ically relayed. This allows offloading computationally expensive models, such as LLM reranking, to another machine, while still enabling their integration with other services in the end user’s custom retrieval pipelines. Figure 3 demonstrates an example configuration JSON object. Each dictionary in theserviceslist defines a processor and its underlying Engine. The fieldenginespecifies the