methods are already supported by the package,RoutIRis also easily expandable by imple- menting theEngineabstract class. The package is open-sourced and publicly available on GitHub:http://github.com/hltcoe/routir. Keywords:search service·retrieval-augmented generation·asynchronous query batching·multi-stage retrieval·online evaluation 1 Introduction Information retrieval research typically requires system comparison using a fixed set of queries and documents, following the Cranfield paradigm [7]. Such exper- iments can be conducted through either batched or sequential query processing, depending on whether measuring query latency is critical to the study. Regard- less, the queries are predefined, so the experimental environment can be static arXiv:2601.10644v1 [cs.IR] 15 Jan 2026 2 E. Yang et al. Retrieval ModelsQuery Processor Query Queue and Batcher Engine Cache Manager Dense Retrieval with FAISS LSR with Anserini LLM Reranker and more through extensions Next Processor On-Demand Retrieval Pipeline Search Query User-Constructed Pipeline Fig. 1.Service architecture ofRoutIR. The user’s HTTP request specifies a retrieval pipeline and search query, illustrated on the left.RoutIRorchestrates the retrieval pipeline on the fly and processes the query with each query processor. Each processor manages queuing, caching, and query processing. The “Next Processor” enables, for example, reranking or result fusion. See Figure 2 for a full JSON example of a request. and read directly from a file. However, embedding retrieval models in a larger dynamic system pipeline creates challenges and overhead when conducting ex- periments. Particularly in Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), the primary pipeline involves one or more large language models (LLMs) [9, 46] that generate search queries, digest retrieved documents, and draft the response. Instead of a linear process such as Fusion-in-Decoder [17] or GINGER [20], RAG systems are in- creasingly complex and dynamic, with multiple rounds of retrieval [1, 9, 13, 39, 47]. A static experimental environment is not sufficient for these systems, be- cause the queries are not known up front. Tools for offline query