to individual setups. The GeoWINE achieves promising results in entity label prediction for images on Google Landmarks dataset. The demonstrator is publicly available at http://cleopatra.ijs.si/geowine/. KEYWORDS Geolocation Estimation, Computer Vision, Knowledge Graph. 1 INTRODUCTION Motivation. With the rapid growth of technology, billions of images are appearing on the Internet every day. While surfing the Web one may encounter an image (e.g., depicting a place) and would like to know where it belongs to and what are similar places. Nonetheless, it would be hard to find keywords to query a search engine. With this in mind, reverse-image search is a unique way to browse the Web. Some of existing reverse-image search implemen- tations are Google Images, eBay, Bing, Pinterest, and Alibaba, most of which are mainly based on extracting visual features from the query image or meta information to perform the retrieval task [1]. In this regard, content-based location estimation of images would enhance the retrieval task. There is an increasing research inter- est in exploiting geographical content of images for various tasks like image classification [10], information retrieval [2], and image verification [3]. On the other hand, information retrieval, text and Web mining, as well as knowledge graphs are increasingly inter- twined with the purpose of yielding opportunities for enhanced exploration facilities. In this paper, we propose GeoWINE (Geolocation Wiki-Image- News-Events) to close the gaps between geolocation estimation, information representation in knowledge graphs, and information retrieval. We utilize geolocation estimation as a core task, but also go beyond by including contextual information in order to enrich the information retrieval task. In this regard, the proposed system is an extension of geolocation estimation to highlight its potential by linking the input image to other knowledge sources such as Wikidata [12] and Open Event Knowledge Graph (OEKG) [5]. To the best of