highest accuracy. In all the top-k results, Religious building achieves the lowest accuracy. Overall, the experimental results show the feasibility and usability of the whole system for different types of landmarks. 6 CONCLUSIONS In this paper, we have introduced the GeoWINE demonstrator, a geolocation-based multimodal retrieval system aimed at supporting different kinds of applications such as fact-checking, fake news de- tection, or image verification. The system consists of five modules: geolocation estimation, geospatial-based entity retrieval, visual search embeddings, news and event retrieval. The user can provide an image, radius, and types of results (e.g. tourist attraction) as input and receive the image geocoordinates on the map, surround- ing entities from Wikidata, and visually similar images from the retrieved entities. Furthermore, the user can find some relevant news and events based on a selected entity on the map. In order to evaluate the performance of the system, we have used a small subset of the Google Landmark dataset for labeling images. The experiments have shown promising results affirming the potential of the overall system for the applications mentioned above. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS This work was supported by the European Union H2020 founded project CLEOPATRA (ITN, GA. 812997). REFERENCES [1] Hanaa Al-Lohibi, Tahani Alkhamisi, Maha Assagran, Amal Aljohani, and Asia Othaman Aljahdali. 2020. Awjedni: A Reverse-Image-Search Application. ADCAIJ (2020). [2] Jason Armitage, Endri Kacupaj, Golsa Tahmasebzadeh, Swati, Maria Maleshkova, Ralph Ewerth, and Jens Lehmann. 2020. MLM: A Benchmark Dataset for Multitask Learning with Multiple Languages and Modalities. In CIKM 2020. ACM. [3] Jiaxin Cheng, Yue Wu, Wael AbdAlmageed, and Premkumar Natarajan. 2019. QATM: Quality-Aware Template Matching for Deep Learning. InIEEE Confer- ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, CVPR 2019 . Computer Vision Foundation / IEEE. [4] Simon Gottschalk and Elena Demidova. 2019. EventKG - the hub of event knowledge on the web -