GeoWINE: Geolocation based Wiki, Image, News and Event Retrieval Golsa Tahmasebzadeh TIB – Leibniz Information Centre for Science and Technology Germany golsa.tahmasebzadeh@tib.eu Endri Kacupaj University of Bonn Germany kacupaj@cs.uni-bonn.de Eric Müller-Budack TIB – Leibniz Information Centre for Science and Technology Germany eric.mueller@tib.eu Sherzod Hakimov TIB – Leibniz Information Centre for Science and Technology Germany sherzod.hakimov@tib.eu Jens Lehmann University of Bonn Fraunhofer IAIS Dresden Germany jens.lehmann@cs.uni-bonn.de Ralph Ewerth TIB Hannover & L3S Research Center, Leibniz University Hannover Germany ralph.ewerth@tib.eu ABSTRACT In the context of social media, geolocation inference on news or events has become a very important task. In this paper, we present the GeoWINE (Geolocation-based Wiki-Image-News-Event retrieval) demonstrator, an effective modular system for multimodal retrieval which expects only a single image as input. The GeoWINE system consists of five modules in order to retrieve related infor- mation from various sources. The first module is a state-of-the-art model for geolocation estimation of images. The second module performs a geospatial-based query for entity retrieval using the Wikidata knowledge graph. The third module exploits four different image embedding representations, which are used to retrieve most similar entities compared to the input image. The embeddings are derived from the tasks of geolocation estimation, place recognition, ImageNet-based image classification, and their combination. The last two modules perform news and event retrieval from EventReg- istry and the Open Event Knowledge Graph (OEKG). GeoWINE provides an intuitive interface for end-users and is insightful for experts for reconfiguration to individual setups. The GeoWINE achieves promising results in entity label prediction for images on Google Landmarks dataset. The demonstrator is publicly available at http://cleopatra.ijs.si/geowine/. KEYWORDS Geolocation Estimation, Computer Vision, Knowledge Graph. 1 INTRODUCTION Motivation. With the rapid growth of technology, billions of images are appearing on the Internet every day. While surfing the Web one may encounter an image