as a core task, but also go beyond by including contextual information in order to enrich the information retrieval task. In this regard, the proposed system is an extension of geolocation estimation to highlight its potential by linking the input image to other knowledge sources such as Wikidata [12] and Open Event Knowledge Graph (OEKG) [5]. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt based on image-based geolocation estimation for event and news retrieval in the context of more downstream tasks such as image verification, recommending similar places, or fact-checking. Approach and Contribution. The proposed system is a ge- olocation based multimodal retrieval system that comprises five modules. Given an image as input, GeoWINE applies a state-of-the- art geolocation estimation model as a starting point to retrieve data from Wikidata [ 12], EventRegistry1, and the OEKG [ 5]. The ge- olocation estimation model is responsible for the prediction of the input image coordinates. The second module performs a geospatial query on Wikidata to retrieve all entities of specific types located no farther than a specified radius from the predicted coordinates. Here, the entity types and the radius are given as input to our system. The third module leverages three different image embed- ding representations that are derived from the tasks of geolocation estimation, place recognition, and an ImageNet model for image classification. These embeddings are used to find and rank the most similar entities compared to the input image. Finally, the last two modules retrieve similar news and events from EventRegistry and OEKG. 1http://eventregistry.org/ arXiv:2104.14994v2 [cs.IR] 4 May 2021 Tahmasebzadeh et al. cleopatra.ijs.si/geowine/ Input (Image, types, radius) Map Entity News Events Results Ranked by similarity Frontend Backend UI (React JS) Python Flask App Forward Response Image, Types, Radius Geolocation Estimation Entity Retrieval Embeddings & Similarities News Retrieval