Identifying Origins of Place Names via Retrieval Augmented Generation Alexis HORDE VO a,1, Matt DUCKHAM a, Estrid HE a and Rafe BENLI b a School of Computing Technologies, RMIT University, Melbourne, Australia b Geographic Names Victoria, Victoria State Government, Australia ORCiD ID: Alexis HORDE VO https://orcid.org/0009-0004-3324-3380, Matt DUCKHAM https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7249-6709, Estrid HE https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8994-9532 Abstract. Who is the Batman behind “Batman Street” in Melbourne? Understanding the historical, cultural, and societal narratives behind place names can reveal the rich context that has shaped a community. Although place names serve as essential spatial references in gazetteers, they often lack information about place name origins. Enriching these place names in today’s gazetteers is a time- consuming, manual process that requires extensive exploration of a vast archive of documents and text sources. Recent advances in natural language processing and language models (LMs) hold the promise of significant automation of identifying place name origins due to their powerful capability to exploit the semantics of the stored documents. This chapter presents a retrieval augmented generation pipeline designed to search for place name origins over a broad knowledge base, DBpedia. Given a spatial query, our approach first extracts sub-graphs that may contain knowledge relevant to the query; then ranks the extracted sub-graphs to generate the final answer to the query using fine-tuned LM-based models (i.e., ColBERTv2 and Llama2). Our results highlight the key challenges facing automated retrieval of place name origins, especially the tendency of language models to under-use the spatial information contained in texts as a discriminating factor. Our approach also frames the wider implications for geographic information retrieval using retrieval augmented generation. Keywords. geographic information retrieval, open domain question answering, retrieval augmented generation, place name, gazetteer 1. Introduction Although place names are officially recorded by place naming authorities around the world, gazetteers commonly lack information regarding place