C2a [/gl⌢be-asia+ /commen◎s], which compensates lower results after the ranker: through in-context learning, the generator tends to favor answers related to Victoria or Australia. However, there is still a compromise between spatial or semantic scores, as shown in Figure 3. 6. Discussion and conclusions Our experiment underlines the important differences between spatial proximity and semantic proximity. In our GIR architecture, later modules aim to counterbalance weaknesses of earlier ones. By exploiting grounded knowledge with different approaches, the final output is consolidated. In summary, the architecture aims to support the principle that maps still speak louder than words. However, our architecture exhibits two stubborn weaknesses. First, spatial information is under-used; and second, losses of information propagate through our system. These weaknesses are particularly impactful for retrieval of long-tail information, such as the origin of place names. Spatially proximal information might be semantically distal in the language models. Other preliminary findings are also suggested by our results. Co-dependencies with structured graphs instead of texts. In our process, we treat each candidate independently in the ranking and we do not consider that each candidate might mutually contribute to better understand each other. An interesting direction is to develop multimodal information retrieval, that combines texts and spatial knowledge graphs [5]. Their graph representation is able to create dependencies in a corpus in the ranker module while offering low-dimension representations for fast rankings. Qualitative spatial reasoning. Disambiguation is a key factor to improve geographic information retrieval, particularly to help to associate a footprint with the mentions “near Collins Street” or “arrived in Australia.” Recent works try to tackle this intrinsic nature of spatial information [11] in language models. Nevertheless, the domain is still an open problem. Further development. In this work, the results can be extended at larger scales, notably other cities in Australia or