we develop a geographic information retrieval (GIR) system to automatically and effectively identify the origins of place names. We formulate the problem as a retrieval augmented generation task, allowing us to combine the strengths of traditional information retrieval and the generative capabilities of advanced language models (LMs). In our approach, relevant data is first retrieved from external knowledge sources (i.e., DBpedia), and then used to guide the generation of responses by pre- trained LMs (i.e., ColBERTv2 [1] and Llama2 [2]). Consequently, the presented system is capable of processing user queries formulated in natural language and providing responses that are both contextually accurate and linguistically coherent. In order to enhance the spatial understanding of LMs, we inject spatial knowledge to ColBERTv2 by fine-tuning it on a dataset crafted from GeoNames. Figure 1 presents an overview of our approach: the searcher retrieves relevant data from DBpedia, the indexer and the ranker filters the retrieved data via a fine-tuned ColBERTv2, and thegenerator produces the final answer via Llama2. In this study of how best to leverage LMs for GIR, we focus in particular on two key questions: Can traditional LMs adequately reflect spatial relationships and geographic context? We perform controlled experiments to evaluate various components of our model, such as semantic and spatial understanding. When specially tuned to spatial understanding, LMs become more limited in general semantic understanding. Further, these models do not Identifying Origins of Place Names Via Retrieval Augmented Generation Searcher Indexer Ranker Generator Who is Batman Street most likely named after, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia? 1 2 3 4 SELECT ?object ... WHERE ... FILTER( CONTAINS(?object, “Batman”) ) Top-10 matching Llama2-13b-Chat “Based on the knowledge graph #3, Batman Street is named after John Batman.” DS:QALD9RDF/XML DS:GeoNames DS:GeoNamesCountry Training:Datasets From the dataset: DS:Gazetteer Embeddings In-context spatial /f_ilters Coarse (geo_aus)Fine-grained (geo_vic) C0,