with knowledge graphs [3]. With the latter, knowledge graphs store information in atomic triplets “( subject, predicate, object )” and respect ontologies for semantic interoperability aspects. For unstructured data, conventional approaches rely on pre-trained language models that capture and compare dense representations with text embeddings [4]. Querying semi- structured data typically implies converting the query to SQL. For structured data, current approaches either seek to convert the query to SPARQL or to find similarities with graph embeddings [5]. Horde Vo, Duckham, He, and Benli Modular architectures for information retrieval architectures. DBpedia is a widely used semantic knowledge base. However, it lacks consistency, mixing structured and unstructured data, such as paragraphs in natural language. As a result, reasoning and generalization with such knowledge bases is challenging. To tackle the problem, current architectures for information retrieval use multiple modules, such as an indexer to optimize the knowledge base for queries and a ranker to find the best matches [6]. Neural rankers then use low-dimensional encoders for text and to calculate similarities. A generator module can be added in retrieval augmented generation (RAG) with a generative language model to align the outputs with the input question in a final step [4]. Despite the increasing number of parameters, generators are not standalone models as they lack ground knowledge [7][8] and tend to fabricate information (“hallucination”). Recent language models can manipulate both natural language and programming languages [2], which increases the capacities of information retrieval systems. An example of machine learning for street names. Despite its limited information in comparison with DBpedia, Wikidata is an atomic knowledge graph used in StreetToPerson [9]. This model restricts the candidates for the origin of place names to persons only: given a place name X Street, StreetToPerson extracts vectors of attributes (e.g., name, occupation, place) for persons having X