Indexer Ranker Generator Who is Batman Street most likely named after, in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia? 1 2 3 4 SELECT ?object ... WHERE ... FILTER( CONTAINS(?object, “Batman”) ) Top-10 matching Llama2-13b-Chat “Based on the knowledge graph #3, Batman Street is named after John Batman.” DS:QALD9RDF/XML DS:GeoNames DS:GeoNamesCountry Training:Datasets From the dataset: DS:Gazetteer Embeddings In-context spatial /f_ilters Coarse (geo_aus)Fine-grained (geo_vic) C0, C1, C2a, C2b Chunks Question: origin of a place name (sem) ColBERT XML/RDF Figure 1. An overview of our approach. reliably capture spatial containment, nor prioritize spatially proximal objects. Further, introducing in-context spatial filters only helps to partially orient the predictions. Can the use of external knowledge bases increase response accuracy? By providing a context, the generator is driven to produce an output that relates more strongly to the provided ground knowledge, rather than fabricating (i.e., so-called “hallucination”) nonexistent objects. However, we still observe “mirages”: real but spatially distal objects that appear closer in terms of embeddings, and by consequence, acquire greater relevance for language models. Finally, the use of external knowledge restricts the solution space in a way that potentially increases the chance of correct answers; nonetheless, the models still need to learn how to navigate in this space. 2. Background and related work Scope of information retrieval over knowledge bases. Information retrieval aims to find “(query, answer)” pairs. In knowledge bases, data can have an unstructured format with text; a semi-structured format with tables; or a structured format with knowledge graphs [3]. With the latter, knowledge graphs store information in atomic triplets “( subject, predicate, object )” and respect ontologies for semantic interoperability aspects. For unstructured data, conventional approaches rely on pre-trained language models that capture and compare dense representations with text embeddings [4]. Querying semi- structured data typically implies converting the query to SQL. For structured data,