the spatial information contained in texts as a discriminating factor. Our approach also frames the wider implications for geographic information retrieval using retrieval augmented generation. Keywords. geographic information retrieval, open domain question answering, retrieval augmented generation, place name, gazetteer 1. Introduction Although place names are officially recorded by place naming authorities around the world, gazetteers commonly lack information regarding place name origins. To understand the history behind place names, one must typically consult external sources, such as historical archives or web pages. Understanding that history is becoming increasingly important to communities, for example, in better reflecting the contributions of marginalized groups, such as women or Indigenous people, to a place. To increase diversity with commemorative places in Victoria (Australia), for example, gender 1Corresponding Author: Alexis HORDE VO, alexis.horde.vo@student.rmit.edu.au arXiv:2509.01030v2 [cs.IR] 3 Sep 2025 Horde Vo, Duckham, He, and Benli equality policies face questions such as: what are the existing places named in honor of women? This question implies the detection of such place names as well as the generation of relevant arguments; in other words, what is the origin of a place name? Place names may refer to multiple objects (streets, buildings, cities or even natural features) but streets are most frequently encountered in daily life, e.g. when addressing a parcel or locating a restaurant near our workplaces. Accordingly, there is a growing need for automated tools that can efficiently retrieve relevant information about the origins of a given place name. With its rich available archives, this chapter evaluates these automated tools within the streets of Melbourne, the historic center of Victoria. Developing such automated tools is challenging for at least two reasons. First, spatial queries can be highly ambiguous. For example, place names in Australia often consist of a single identifying word rather than a whole name (e.g., Batman