arXiv:2406.18960v1 [cs.IR] 27 Jun 2024 A Surprisingly Simple yet Eﬀective Multi-/Q_uery Rewriting Method for Conversational Passage Retrieval Ivica Kostric University of Stavanger Stavanger, Norway ivica.kostric@uis.no Krisztian Balog University of Stavanger Stavanger, Norway krisztian.balog@uis.no ABSTRACT Conversational passage retrieval is challenging as it often requires the resolution of references to previous utterances and nee ds to deal with the complexities of natural language, such as coreference and ellipsis. To address these challenges, pre-trained seq uence-to- sequence neural query rewriters are commonly used to genera te a single de-contextualized query based on conversation hist ory. Pre- vious research shows that combining multiple query rewrite s for the same user utterance has a positive eﬀect on retrieval per for- mance. We propose the use of a neural query rewriter to gener- ate multiple queries and show how to integrate those queries in the passage retrieval pipeline eﬃciently. The main strengt h of our approach lies in its simplicity: it leverages how the beam se arch algorithm works and can produce multiple query rewrites at n o additional cost. Our contributions further include devisi ng ways to utilize multi-query rewrites in both sparse and dense ﬁrs t-pass retrieval. We demonstrate that applying our approach on top of a standard passage retrieval pipeline delivers state-of-the-art perfor- mance without sacriﬁcing eﬃciency. CCS CONCEPTS • Information systems → Query reformulation. KEYWORDS Conversational search; Conversational passage retrieval ; Neural query rewriting ACM Reference Format: Ivica Kostric and Krisztian Balog. 2024. A Surprisingly Simple yet Ef- fective Multi-Query Rewriting Method for Conversational Passage Re - trieval. In Proceedings of the 47th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (SIGI R ’24), July 14–18, 2024, Washington, DC, USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 5 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3626772.3657933 1 INTRODUCTION The main objective of a conversational search system is