more discriminative for weaker retrievers, where the perplexity of retrieved contexts varies more sharply between low- and high-utility cases. To conclude for RQ-2, combining PerpCwith QPP predictors yields more significant gains in accuracy with weaker retrievers and is especially effective for predicting answer quality rather than predicting context utility. RQ-3: Effectiveness of leveraging query-agnostic predictors.The last two rows in the upper part of Table 2 report results when adding query-agnostic readability (Read.) and document quality (Qual.) predictors to the predictor combination. Compared with QPP and PerpC, we observe small but consis- tent gains, mostly for BM25 and MonoT5. For BM25, adding readability alone already achieves the best pre-generation results. These findings suggest that doc- ument quality metrics, originally designed for human readers, offer only limited additional value for RAG prediction, where the reader is an LLM. To conclude for RQ-3, document quality and readability predictors can slightly improve RPP and GPP accuracy when combined with QPP and PerpC. RQ-4: Effectiveness of Leveraging Post-Generation Prediction.The lower part of Table 2 reports results for answer perplexity (PerpA) and its in- tegration with pre-generation predictors. Stand-alone PerpAshows a moderate positive correlation with answer quality in GPP (Spearman’sρat 0.25–0.30), but weaker correlations with retrieval utility in RPP, since utilityUalso depends on how retrieved documents interact with the LLM’s inherent knowledge, a factor not fully reflected in the LLM’s confidence of the answer [49]. When PerpAis combined with pre-generation signals, prediction accuracy improvesforbothRPPandGPPcomparedtoeitherPerpAorthepre-generation signalsalone.Forinstance,inGPPwithE5,combiningPerpAwithQPPachieves a correlation of 0.3915, compared to 0.2873 for PerpAalone and 0.2952 for QPP. These improvements are consistently significant under Fisher’sz-test, indicat- ing that the model’s self-confidence, captured by PerpA, complements the pre- generation signals from the context to yield stronger predictions. Nonetheless, this benefit comes at the cost of waiting for the full answer to be generated. To conclude for RQ-4,