multiple feature categories yields the most accurate estimates of RAG performance. Keywords:Large Language Models·Retrieval Augmented Generation ·Query Performance Prediction·Perplexity·Readability. 1 Introduction Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is a framework that integrates the in- herent parametric knowledge of large language models (LLMs) with retrieved documents to supplement knowledge [38], and mitigate hallucinations [32]. Fig- ure1showshowalistoftop-kdocumentsretrievedforaqueryactsasasourcefor contextualgenerationviaanLLM,aprocessoftencalled“k-shotgeneration” [24]. Although the standard RAG framework follows a static workflow that treats all queries uniformly [34,38], recent studies have shown the potential of adopting arXiv:2601.14546v1 [cs.IR] 20 Jan 2026 2 Tian et al. ΔP LLM LLM zero-shot generation k-shot generation (RAG) U Retriever Context Perplexity Confidence in Answer Pre-generation Predictors Post- generation GPP RPPDocument Quality P0 Pk dk a0 ak q QPP Approaches Fig.1: An illustration of how the proposed prediction tasks fit into a standard RAG workflow. Retrieval Performance Prediction (RPP) estimates the gain in answer quality ofk-shot relative to zero-shot (see Equation (1)). Generation Performance Prediction (GPP) directly estimates thek-shot answer quality. Both predictions rely on informa- tion extracted from the retrieved documents and the generated answer (as shown in the blue area at the bottom). The grey area denotes components not accessible to any predictors. dynamic, query-specific workflows [7]. In such dynamic workflows, the number of retrieved documents or even the choice of ranking model may vary depending on the characteristics of the query [30,33,48,58]. It has been shown that predicting the retrieval quality in a standard IR task by query performance prediction (QPP) models [18,21,28] leads to effective adaptive IR pipelines [17]. This motivates us to hypothesise that accurately predicting both the utility of retrieved documents as RAG context, where utility is defined as the answer quality gain ofk-shot generation relative to zero-shot (U in Figure 3) [55], and the quality of the generated answers can further enhance RAG effectiveness. The primary objective