Do query-agnostic document quality and readability metrics provide additional predictive value for RPP and GPP? –RQ-4: Does integrating pre-generation predictors with post-generation answer perplexity (PerpA) improve prediction accuracy? Datasets.We evaluate the prediction accuracy of our proposed approaches on Natural Question [37] (NQ), a widely-used open-domain QA dataset. Answer quality is evaluated by F1 score against the provided golden answer [9]. Context documents for NQ queries are retrieved from a snapshot of English Wikipedia from 2018. The accuracy of predictors in RPP and GPP is tested on the NQ test set (3610 queries). Prediction accuracy is measured by Spearman’sρcorrelation between the predicted scores and the ground-truth targets, specifically context utility (1) for RPP, and answer quality (F1 Score) for GPP. RAG Configurations.To assess the applicability of our predictors for RPP and GPP, we experiment with three retrieval configurations1: – BM25[44]: A lexical retriever based on term frequency, inverse document frequency, and document length normalisation. – BM25≫MonoT5[42]: A retrieve-and-rerank pipeline, where the top-100 BM25 results are re-ranked using MonoT5, a cross-encoder re-ranker. – E5[57]: A BERT-based bi-encoder trained with contrastive learning, leverag- ing large batch sizes and in-batch negatives. The above three rankers yield different overall answer quality on NQ in our experiments, with average F1 scores of 0.3284, 0.4019, and 0.4798, respectively (top-2 retrieved documents as context). We vary the RAG context size withk∈ {2,3,5,7,10}. For answer generation, we employ an 8-bit quantised, instruction-tuned version of Llama-3-8B2 [19], guided by the prompt template shown in Figure 2 that instructs the model to produce concise and factually correct answers. 4.1 Investigated Predictors QPP Approaches.We experiment with existing QPP approaches: – NQC[50], which analyses the variance of retrieval scores of the top-retrieved documents, integrating with query term frequency. 1 We perform all indexing and retrieval using the PyTerrier framework [40]. 2 QuantFactory/Meta-Llama-3-8B-GGUF Predicting