predic- tors: PreGen-Ensmbl is always more accurate than the best single pre-generation method, and PostGen-Ensmbl yields the best overall performance. This aligns with our earlier findings in RQs, where combining predictors produces more accurate predictions than using them in isolation. Overall, the accuracy of pre- generation predictors declines askgrows for both RPP and GPP, reflecting the increasing difficulty of analysing long concatenated contexts. Although combin- ingallpre-generationpredictorsimprovesaccuracycomparedtothebestindivid- ual predictor, it cannot counteract the downward trend. The gains achieved by combining pre-generation predictors become larger askin RPP, suggesting that reader-centric and query-agnostic signals help capture inter-document relations missed by QPP alone, especially for long RAG contexts. By contrast, the post-generation predictor PerpAimproves steadily as the context size increases. When incorporated with pre-generation predictors, they yield the best overall prediction performance. However, askincreases, the con- tribution of pre-generation signals in the combination diminishes, as shown by the convergence of the curves of PerpAand PostGen-Ensmbl in Figure 3. 6 Conclusions In this paper, we propose two prediction tasks for RAG:RPP, targeting context utility, andGPP, targeting answer quality. Our experiments show that a range Predicting Retrieval Utility and Answer Quality in RAG 13 of different information sources — relevance estimations from QPP models, per- plexity of retrieved and generated content, readability and relevance priors — is useful for RPP and GPP. An ensemble approach learned via linear regres- sion consistently outperforms the individual predictors across different rankers and context sizes. We also find that predicting utility (RPP) is inherently harder thanpredictinganswerquality(GPP),sinceutilitydependsnotonlyonrelevance but also on how retrieved context interacts with an LLM’s inherent knowledge. While our results shed light on prediction-driven analysis for RAG, effectively leveraging such predictions in per-query context optimisation requires improv- ing predictor precision. In addition, evaluating RPP and GPP across a broader range of datasets and LLMs is important for future work,