JEC-QA: A Legal-Domain Question Answering Dataset. In Proceedings of AAAI. [36] Lexin Zhou, Wout Schellaert, Fernando Martínez-Plumed, Yael Moros-Daval, Cèsar Ferri, and José Hernández-Orallo. 2024. Larger and more instructable language models become less reliable. Nature (2024), 1–8. https://doi.org/10. 1038/s41586-024-07930-y [37] Yujia Zhou, Zheng Liu, Jiajie Jin, Jian-Yun Nie, and Zhicheng Dou. 2024. Metacog- nitive Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models. InThe Web Conference 2024. https://openreview.net/forum?id=TW2gJyR6Mj A COMPLEMENTARY EXPERIMENTAL SETTINGS A.1 Datasets The detailed descriptions of the adopted datasets are summarized as follows: • CommonsenseQA [25] is a multiple-choice QA dataset specifi- cally designed to evaluate commonsense reasoning capabilities. Each question is accompanied by five candidate answers, only one of which is correct. • CMB-Exam [26] covers 280,839 questions from six major medical professional qualification examinations, including physicians, nurses, medical technologists and pharmacists, as well as Un- dergraduate Disciplines Examinations and Graduate Entrance Examination in the medical field at China. Given the extensive scale of CMB-Exam, we sample a subset of CMB-Exam that comprises 2,000 questions, where 500 questions are randomly sampled from nurses, pharmacists, Undergraduate Disciplines Examination, and Graduate Entrance Examination categories. • ExplainCPE [13] is a Chinese medical benchmark dataset con- taining over 7K instances from the National Licensed Pharma- cist Examination. This dataset is distinctive in providing both multiple-choice answers and their corresponding explanations. • webMedQA [9] is a large-scale Chinese medical QA dataset con- structed from professional health consultation websites (such as Baidu Docto). The dataset contains 63,284 questions covering var- ious clinical departments including internal medicine, surgery, gynecology, and pediatrics, with answers provided by doctors and experienced users. The dataset has been preprocessed to remove web tags, links, and garbled characters, retaining only Chinese and English characters, numbers, and punctuation. • JEC-QA [35] is a legal domain dataset collected from the National Judicial Examination of China. It serves