natural inclination is to apply self-refinement mechanism of current text-based RAG methods [10, 32]. They assess discrete units of evidence (e.g., text chunks), if a flaw is found, they can substitute the faulty piece or trigger a second-time searching to fetch a new evidence. However, 1 arXiv:2508.09460v1 [cs.IR] 13 Aug 2025 Xujie et al. this paradigm is inappropriate for adapting to KG-RAG due to the path-dependent nature of graph exploration. The core limitation is that existing self-refinement methods treat evidence paths as a set of independent items, failing to grasp the relational trajectories between them. This is akin to realizing you are on the wrong high- way, the solution is not just finding the correct road segment, but also identifying where the wrong turn occurred and re-planning a new route from your current location to the destination. As illustrated in Fig. 1 (b), self-refinement methods recognize the missing concept “indigestion” and perform a re-retrieval. However, due to the ab- sence of trajectories connecting the original “chest pain” path to the new “indigestion” path, LLMs still struggle to integrate these two separate evidence paths for the final diagnosis: heart problem or digestive issue? These potential knowledge conflicts across indepen- dent evidence paths induce hallucinations in LLMs. Thus, directly employing self-refinement to address the cognitive blindness issue in KG-RAG remains a challenge. Inspired by human metacognitive processes [ 12, 22], the abil- ity to “think about thinking”, we propose Metacognitive Knowl- edge Graph Retrieval-Augmented Generation (MetaKGRAG). This framework introduces a metacognitive cycle tailored for the path- dependent nature of graph exploration. MetaKGRAG incorporates self-monitoring and self-regulation mechanisms, which are lacking in open-loop KG-RAG systems. It transforms blind path genera- tion into a reflective and closed-loop process through a concrete Perceive-Evaluate-Adjust cycle (as shown in Fig. 1 (c)). Here is how this cycle