Graph Retrieval-Augmented Generation (MetaKGRAG). This framework introduces a metacognitive cycle tailored for the path- dependent nature of graph exploration. MetaKGRAG incorporates self-monitoring and self-regulation mechanisms, which are lacking in open-loop KG-RAG systems. It transforms blind path genera- tion into a reflective and closed-loop process through a concrete Perceive-Evaluate-Adjust cycle (as shown in Fig. 1 (c)). Here is how this cycle directly addresses cognitive blindness: • Perceive: First, our method generates an initial candidate path and then holistically assesses it. It systematically checks how well the entire path, as a whole, covers all crucial aspects of the input query, creating a comprehensive initial understanding. • Evaluate: Based on the Perceive, it then diagnoses specific, pre- defined problems. To combat Incomplete Evidence, it identifies which key concepts from the query were missed. To correct Rel- evance Drift, it pinpoints the exact node where the exploration began to deviate from the query’s overall intent. • Adjust: Different from existing self-refinement methods, the adjustment is not a blind re-retrieval. Based on the specific diag- nosis, the system performs a trajectory-connected correction. It identifies the optimal pivot point on the flawed path, the last correct step before things went wrong. From there, it initiates a smarter re-exploration, now armed with the knowledge of what to avoid and what to prioritize, effectively re-routing its trajectory to the correct destination. This cycle equips the system with the self-cognition to master path-dependent retrieval, providing a solution adapted to knowl- edge graphs. The main contributions of this paper are as follows: • We identify Cognitive Blindness, along with its manifestations of incomplete coverage and relevance drift, as a core challenge in current KG-RAG methods. • We propose MetaKGRAG, a novel framework inspired by metacog- nitive principles, that introduces an evidence-level refinement cycle to overcome the limitations of traditional correction