knowl- edge graphs. The main contributions of this paper are as follows: • We identify Cognitive Blindness, along with its manifestations of incomplete coverage and relevance drift, as a core challenge in current KG-RAG methods. • We propose MetaKGRAG, a novel framework inspired by metacog- nitive principles, that introduces an evidence-level refinement cycle to overcome the limitations of traditional correction in path-dependent graph exploration. • We design a concrete three-stage Perceive-Evaluate-Adjust cycle that enables iterative assessment, deficiency diagnosis, and strategic re-exploration of candidate evidence paths. • We conduct comprehensive experiments across medical (Ex- plainCPE [13], CMB-Exam [ 26], webMedQA [ 9]), legal (JEC- QA) [35], and commonsense (CommonsenseQA) [25] domains demonstrate that MetaKGRAG achieves substantial improve- ments over strong LLM baselines, KG-RAG methods, and incor- porated self-refinement approaches, validating the superiority of our adaptive control framework. 2 INSPIRATION FROM METACOGNITION Metacognition [12, 22], inspired by human "thinking about think- ing" processes, has shown promise in improving system self-awareness and adaptive control. In the context of LLMs, this has led to sev- eral promising approaches. Metacognitive prompting [27] guides LLMs through explicit self-reflection steps, asking models to eval- uate their own reasoning quality and identify potential errors. A metacognition framework used in text-based RAG is MetaRAG [37], which employs a monitor-evaluate-plan loop to diagnose and rec- tify specific failures. It assesses an initial response by analyzing the sufficiency and consistency of both its internal knowledge and externally retrieved documents. Based on this diagnosis, it plans a targeted revision, such as generating new search queries to fill knowledge gaps or ignoring distracting evidence. While powerful, these methods reveal a critical limitation for graph exploration that their refinement loops operate are not at the path level. For instance, MetaRAG’s “plan” step can decide to trigger a completely new search with a revised query,