materials. The EPA claims no concerning health risks. The chemicals are linked to increased risk of cancer. Tail Template <ptactic,> <overblown characterisations about the derailment disaster> Reporters made overblown accusations about the derailment disaster. TABLE III GUIDED INTELLIGENCE REPORT GENERATION USING IPP PROMPT TEMPLATES . keywords present in the final generated intelligence report. We limit the generation to 500 words to avoid model hallucination and inclusion of non-event related information. We found prompting with longer sequences of keywords (such as those extracted from the Lead and Body templates) resulted in more tightly coherent and semantically relevant generations, versus the Tail template, which mostly only included the extracted persuasion tactic as a prompt. We found that for instances such as these, the model would deflect from the event and sometimes include non-relevant information. Therefore, for tail generation, we limit the output to 100 words. A. Quantitative Evaluation We utilize Rouge scores to quantitatively evaluate the effi- cacy of our system in generating syntactically accurate intelli- gence reports [29]. Rouge-n in particular, allows us to compute the ratios of overlapping n-grams between generated reports and reference text. In particular, we use event descriptions extracted from Wikipedia as a reference set to calculate the syntactic overlap between these event descriptions and FAB- ULA’s generated intelligence reports. The Wikipedia event descriptions are derived based on content from a variety of online sources and reporters, written by human volunteers and overseen by Wikipedia moderators. These Wikipedia reference descriptions help provide us with a lateral publicly available comparison for FABULA’s fragmented narrative construction. We use the Wikipedia Python library summaries endpoint [30] to extract event descriptors for 50 different public events we randomly selected from D + IR and calculate Rouge- 1 and Rouge-2. This provides term-based measures to quantify topic- level semantic relevance and syntactic