communicating news events (Section II-A). The IPP narrative structure has three sub-categories: Lead, Body, and Tail. Definitions of the IPP sub-categories and associated sub-types are available in Table I. To extract the IPP-based plot points, we implement a Narrative Plot Concept Extractor (NPCE) that processes the set of news articles D. In the rest of this section, we further describe the methods used to extract the plot points described in Table I that form set P . Extraction occurs at each level of the IPP - Lead, Body, and Tail. 1) The Lead: Event information contained in the IPP Lead class describes the most noteworthy event details. As indicated in Table I, these details are expressed through the 5W commu- nication device: who? ( pwho), what? ( pwhat), when? ( pwhen), where? ( pwhere), and why? ( pwhy). The answers to the 5W questions provide a circumstantial view of an event. The NPCE extracts the 5Ws using pre-trained Named Entity Recognition (NER) and Part of Speech (POS) Tagging models from the standardized spaCy NLP Framework [22]. The specific entity and relationship types extracted are provided in Table II. The spaCy NER was trained on the widely benchmarked 1https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/ 2https://www.dni.gov/index.php/newsroom/reports-publications Inverted Pyramid Class Plot Element Notation Lead: Summary of the most noteworthy details and main story objective/event. Who: Identification of the subject or persons involved. pwho What: Occurrences of scenes, incidents, artifacts, or actions. pwhat When: Recorded timestamps and dates. pwhen Where: Geographic regions and locations mentioned. pwhere Why: The cause and reason to describe event occurence. pwhy Body: Series of crucial delineated incidents that build main story objective/event. Evidence: Supporting details surrounding an event. pevidence Quotes: Phrases noted by involved persons. pquote Media (Photos): Digital Image Object (HTML DOM image element) pphoto Media (Video): Recorded Video Object (HTML DOM video