a Large Language Model (LLM) during intelligence report generation. Our evaluation studies show that the plot points included in the generated intelligence reports have high semantic relevance, high coherency, and low data redundancy. Index Terms—retrieval augmented generation, large language models, knowledge graphs, narratives I. I NTRODUCTION The process by which information about critical events is disseminated, articulated, and shaped into news stories has greatly evolved since the proliferation of digital media and the World Wide Web. Intelligence analysts now take advantage of an abundance of online communication mediums to widely share and obtain reporting on a variety of critical events. Intelligence analysts rely heavily on manual techniques to extract evolving fine-grained event details over multiple Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) sources in real-time. This evaluated information is then manually documented within an intelligence report, which is used during tactical operations by decision makers to manage, evaluate, and keep updated on evolving events, such as breaking news occurrences. Intelligence reports are inherently structured to communi- cate narratives, which are accounts of interconnected event incidents and actors (plot points) evolving through some notion of time. In journalism and storytelling, there have been several types of narrative plot structures proposed to organize and convey event information. One of the most well suited for intelligence analysis is the Inverted Plot Pyramid (IPP) narrative structure (Figure 2, Section II-A) which is designed specifically for conveying news event details. It is becoming more clear that the intelligence analysis domain can bene- fit tremendously from techniques in computational narrative construction, which utilize existing Information Retrieval (IR) methods such as document collection, query processing, and ranking to aid end users in comprehending disparate event information. Specifically, integrating narrative construction tasks to intelligence analysis workflows can alleviate the costly nature of intelligence report generation in three primary ways: (a) Automatically