?z narr:ArticleHeadline ?y. FILTER regex(str(?z), "Oceangate").} Output: <OceanGate Expeditions, Stockton Rush, Paul-Henri Nargeloe, Hamish Harding, Shahzada Dawood, Suleman Dawood, Titanic, wreck, submersible, 18 June, 370 miles, Newfoundland, Canada, Atlantic Ocean> Listing 1. SPARQL query to retrieve Lead plot points for e = “Oceangate” and corresponding output VI. E XPERIMENTATION & E VALUATION Our evaluation study is composed of two experimental approaches. First, we automatically evaluate the semantic and syntactic quality of the generated reports using Recall- Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation (ROUGE) [29]. Second, we qualitatively evaluate the reports through a human evaluation done by a group of 3 analysts. Table V-C, provides samples of the generated intelligence reports for the 2023 Oceangate Submersible Disaster and the 2023 Ohio Train Derailment Disaster events. Column one displays the narrative prompt templates that were used for EPG plot point instance extraction (See Section V-C). Each IPP class has an associated derived narrative prompt set (Column 2), which is converted into a linearized prompt of keywords, used as input to GPT-Neo for guided text generation (See Section V-C). The bolded text in the generated samples (Table V-C, Column 3) represents occurrences of the prompt 2023 Oceangate Submersible Disaster Prompt Template Prompt Generated Text Lead Template <pwho, pwhat, pwhen, pwhere,> <OceanGate Expeditions, Stockton Rush, Paul-Henri Nargeloe, Hamish Harding, Shahzada Dawood, Suleman Dawood, Titanic, wreck, site, submersible, 18 June, 370 miles, Newfoundland, Canada, 1 hour and 45 minutes, Atlantic Ocean> The OceanGate Expeditions submarine is the subject of the rescue operation for Hamish Harding, Stockton Rush, Paul-Henri Nargeloe, Shahzada Dawood, Suleman Dawood were on board for an expedition into the Titanic wreck site. The Titan submersible went missing 18 June about 370 miles off the coast of Newfoundland in Canada. The submersible lost contact just 1 hour and 45 minutes after diving into the Atlantic