intelligence analyst. Analysts heavily rely on traditional, manual techniques to parse large amounts of noisy OSINT data to create cohesive intelligence reports. These manual methods do not provide complete situational awareness and are prone to information gaps and inaccurate representations of dynamic events.In this paper, we have described our framework FABULA (Figure 1), that integrates real-time news event retrieval, narrative schema-based information extraction and representation of event concept information, and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) of intelligence reports. We evaluate the generated reports using quantitative Rouge evaluation metrics and through a qualitative human evaluation study. Our results show that the plot points constructed within the generated intelligence report have high semantic relevance, high coherency, and low data redundancy. In planned future work, we are exploring methods to train transformer based lan- guage models to automatically learn the structure of a variety of plot models. It is a non-uniform process to identify narrative features in natural language. We are pursuing strategies to transfer the classified plot relationships to broader events and domains. REFERENCES [1] Wendy G Lehnert. Plot units and narrative summarization. Cognitive science, 5(4):293–331, 1981. [2] Priyanka Ranade, Sanorita Dey, Anupam Joshi, and Tim Finin. Com- putational understanding of narratives: A survey. IEEE Access, 2022. [3] Ryan L Boyd, Kate G Blackburn, and James W Pennebaker. The narrative arc: Revealing core narrative structures through text analysis. Science advances, 6(32):eaba2196, 2020. [4] Kristin Thompson. Storytelling in the new Hollywood: Understanding classical narrative technique . Harvard University Press, 1999. [5] Brian Keith, Michael Horning, and Tanushree Mitra. Evaluating the inverted pyramid structure through automatic 5w1h extraction and summarization. Computational Journalism C+ J , 2020. [6] Faten El Outa, Matteo Francia, Patrick Marcel, Veronika Peralta, and Panos Vassiliadis. Supporting the generation of data narratives. In ER Forum/Posters/Demos, pages 168–172, 2020. [7] Xianshu Zhu and Tim