the subject of the rescue operation for Hamish Harding, Stockton Rush, Paul-Henri Nargeloe, Shahzada Dawood, Suleman Dawood were on board for an expedition into the Titanic wreck site. The Titan submersible went missing 18 June about 370 miles off the coast of Newfoundland in Canada. The submersible lost contact just 1 hour and 45 minutes after diving into the Atlantic Ocean. Body Template <pevidence, pquote,> <debris, ROV , seafloor, titanic, sonar, banging, noises, implosion, injury, dead, safety, regulations, failure, United States Coast Guard said “likely died from the failure of the craft”> Debris was found by a ROV near the Titanic wreck. Sonar detects banging sounds from underneath the water. The banging sounds indicate an unfortunate implosion. The United States Coast Guard claims the crew and passengers died from the implosion. Tail Template <ptactic,> <overshadowed the bigger Greece migrant vessel disaster> Coverage overshadowed the greater Mediterranean disaster. 2023 Ohio Train Derailment Disaster Prompt Template Prompt Generated Text Lead Template <pwho, pwhat, pwhen, pwhere,> <Norfolk Southern Train, chemicals, East Palestine, Ohio, 9pm, 3 February> Norfolk Southern Train carrying hazardous chemicals suffered a mechanical failure. The derailment took place in the village of East Palestine, Ohio at 9pm on 3 February. Body Template <pevidence, pquote,> <derailment, cars, EPA, hazardous, chemicals, contaminants, cancer, gas, safety, The EPA said it “did not detect chemical contaminants at concerning levels in the hours after venting.”> The cars had derailed, including the cars that were carrying hazardous materials. The EPA claims no concerning health risks. The chemicals are linked to increased risk of cancer. Tail Template <ptactic,> <overblown characterisations about the derailment disaster> Reporters made overblown accusations about the derailment disaster. TABLE III GUIDED INTELLIGENCE REPORT GENERATION USING IPP PROMPT TEMPLATES . keywords present in the final generated intelligence report. We limit the generation to 500 words