and technologies, datasets, evaluation methods and metrics, and existing limitations. By analyzing these dimensions, we aim to provide a comprehensive understanding of how MRAG can be effectively constructed and improved. Additionally, we highlight current challenges and propose future research directions, encouraging further exploration into this promising paradigm. Our work underscores the potential of MRAG to revolutionize multimodal information retrieval and generation, offering a forward-looking perspective on its development and applications. CCS Concepts: •Information systems → Multimedia and multimodal retrieval ; Language models; • Computing methodologies → Natural language processing. Additional Key Words and Phrases: Multimodal Retrieval-Augmented Generation, Multimodal Large Language Model, Multimodal Document Parsing and Indexing, Multimodal Search Planning ACM Reference Format: Lang Mei, Siyu Mo, Zhihan Yang, and Chong Chen. 2018. A Survey on Multimodal Retrieval-Augmented Generation. In Proceedings of Make sure to enter the correct conference title from your rights confirmation email (Conference acronym ’XX). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 80 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX ∗Chong Chen is the corresponding author. Authors’ Contact Information: Lang Mei, Huawei Cloud BU, Beijing, China, meilang1@huawei.com; Siyu Mo, Huawei Cloud BU, Beijing, China, mosiyu@huawei.com; Zhihan Yang, Huawei Cloud BU, Beijing, China, yangzhihan4@huawei.com; Chong Chen, Huawei Cloud BU, Beijing, China, chenchong55@huawei.com. Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. Conference acronym ’XX, Woodstock, NY © 2018 Copyright held