model’s utilization of target multimodal knowledge, thereby determining end-to-end performance. In this section, we first classify docu- ments in multimodal knowledge bases according to their structure, then we provide a detailed introduction to the parsing methods and the evolution of these methods for different types of multimodal documents. Specifically, multimodal documents can be categorized into the following three types: • Unstructured Multimodal Data: refers to various multimodal information that does not have a specific format or schema, such as text, images, videos, and audio. Among the unstructured data, documents with images are widely studied in MRAG. For example, SlideVQA [347] is a typical dataset for visual question-answering task, where all documents are input as images. • Semi-structured Multimodal Data: mainly refers to multimodal information that lacks the rigid schema of traditional relational databases but retains some organizational features, such as PDFs, HTML, XML, and JSON. In such documents, rule-based methods can directly extract structural characteristics. For instance, in HTML, the title can be identified using the <title> tag. A common challenge in processing these documents is that their inherent structure, easily interpretable by humans, is often lost during parsing, resulting in information loss. • Structured Multimodal Data: refers to multimodal information arranged in a predefined format, typically following a fixed schema, such as relational databases and knowledge graphs. The primary challenge in handling such data is formulating an accurate structured query language corresponding to natural language. In MRAG scenarios, the primary focus is on processing and leveraging unstructured and semi- structured documents. Document parsing methods in MRAG are broadly categorized into two approaches: extraction-based and representation-based. Each approach has distinct advantages and limitations, with the choice depending on task-specific requirements such as scalability or computational efficiency. Extraction-based methods involve a two-step process: first, multimodal information is extracted from documents, and