1, Article . Publication date: April 2018. A Survey on Multimodal Retrieval-Augmented Generation 3 LLMs. In recent years, the development of multimodal generative models has showcased additional application possibilities. Apart from textual generative models, multimodal generative models have been increasingly applied in fields such as human-computer interaction, robot control, image search, and speech generation. Similarly, based on multimodal generative models and multimodal data, how to effectively process Multimodal Retrieval-Augmented Generation (MRAG) is an issue that needs to be explored. Recently, some research have demonstrated that MRAG with multimodal data outperforms traditional text-modal RAG. By enhancing the generation capabilities of multimodal large language models (MLLMs) through the retrieval of external multimodal knowledge, MRAG system can further enhance question answering capabilities and quality, thereby further reducing hallucination issues. The main differences between text-modal RAG and MRAG lie in retrieval and generation. In the retrieval step, the former only needs to consider retrieving relevant textual knowledge from a large document collection, while the latter needs to consider how to retrieve and integrate the relevant knowledge under different modalities, as well as the relationships between knowledge in different modalities. In the generation step, the former only needs to consider the input text query and relevant textual knowledge, and output a text answer based on the LLM. The latter, however, needs to consider how to utilize the input query from different modalities and multimodal retrieval knowledge, and output an answer that includes information from different modalities based on the MLLM. Considering the immense potential of MRAG in this field, this survey aims to systematically review and analyze the current state and main challenges of MRAG. We discuss existing research from several key perspectives: 1) What important components and technologies are involved in MRAG? 2) What types of datasets can be used for the evaluation of