primary focus is on processing and leveraging unstructured and semi- structured documents. Document parsing methods in MRAG are broadly categorized into two approaches: extraction-based and representation-based. Each approach has distinct advantages and limitations, with the choice depending on task-specific requirements such as scalability or computational efficiency. Extraction-based methods involve a two-step process: first, multimodal information is extracted from documents, and second, the extracted data is parsed and structured for storage and downstream use. In contrast, representation-based methods do not require explicit extraction of multimodal information. Instead, these methods focus on storing document content holistically, often employing representation techniques for document segments. This approach enables a more comprehensive processing of document content. 3.1.1 Extraction-based. Early document parsing solutions were entirely extractive. They evolved gradually from plain text extraction to multimodal data extraction, depending on the type of content being extracted. This subsection will present the process in this sequence. • Plain Text Extraction. In this phase, only textual information from all modal data in the docu- ment was extracted. For example, for tables and images, only their textual content was captured. Semi-structured documents, such as PDFs, XML, and HTML, can be parsed directly according to their structural rules. Numerous open-source tools support such capabilities, including pymupdf [3] and pdfminer [2] for PDF parsing, and jsoup [1] for HTML extraction. While this approach enables simple and efficient document parsing, it has limitations: it cannot extract multimodal , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018. A Survey on Multimodal Retrieval-Augmented Generation 13 information (e.g., text within images) and struggles with complex document formats. Additionally, the parsed results often suffer from significant loss of document structure information. To enhance document parsing accuracy and address the limitations of rule-based methods in handling complex real-world documents, such as in Visual Document Understanding (VDU)