April 2018. 32 Trovato et al. decomposition that represents each video as keyframes and temporal motions. These are then adapted to an LLM using well-designed tokenizers that discretize visual and temporal information as a few tokens, thus enabling unified generative pre-training of videos, images, and text. At inference, the generated tokens from the LLM are carefully recovered to the original continuous pixel space to create various video content. The proposed framework is both capable of comprehending and generating image and video content. Recently, the input for multimodal large models has evolved from specialized modal data to a unified input that can handle arbitrary modal data. For instance, InstructBLIP [289] conduct a vision- language instruction tuning based on the pretrained BLIP-2 models. Additionally, we introduce an instruction-aware Query Transformer, which extracts informative features tailored to the given instruction. InternVL [47] design a large-scale vision-language foundation model (InternVL) which scales up the vision foundation model to 6 billion parameters and progressively aligns it with the LLM using web-scale image-text data from various sources. GPT-4 [7] proposes a large-scale, multimodal model which can accept image and text inputs and produce text outputs. While less capable than humans in many real-world scenarios, GPT-4 exhibits human-level performance on various professional and academic benchmarks. HuggingGPT [325] proposes an LLM-powered agent that leverages LLMs (eg, ChatGPT) to connect various AI models in machine learning communities (eg, Hugging Face) to solve AI tasks. Specifically, we use ChatGPT to conduct task planning when receiving a user request, select models according to their function descriptions available in Hugging Face, execute each subtask with the selected AI model, and summarize the response according to the execution results. By leveraging the strong language capability of ChatGPT and abundant AI models in Hugging Face, HuggingGPT can tackle a wide range of sophisticated AI