model’s capacity to memorize information from the document corpus. This is typically achieved through sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) training, where the model learns to map queries to their corresponding Document Identifiers (DocIDs). The training process emphasizes optimizing the model’s understanding of semantic relationships between queries and documents, thereby improving retrieval accuracy. Document Identifiers (DocIDs) serve as the target output for the generative retrieval model, and unique representations of each document in the corpus. The quality of these identifiers is crucial, as they directly impact the model’s ability to memorize and retrieve document information. Effective DocIDs are often generated using dense, low-dimensional embeddings or structured representations that capture the essential content and context of documents, enabling the model to distinguish between documents more accurately and enhancing retrieval performance. By overcoming the limitations of traditional IR in terms of content granularity and relevance matching, GR offers enhanced flexibility, efficiency, and creativity, better aligning with practical demands. – Retrieval for Text-modal. The recent advancements in generative language models have demonstrated their ability to memorize knowledge from documents and recall knowledge to respond to user queries effectively, which focuses on the use of document identifiers (DocIDs) , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018. 24 Trovato et al. and their optimization for retrieval tasks. The approaches can be categorized into static DocID- based methods and learnable DocID-based methods. Static DocID-based methods rely on pre-defined, fixed document identifiers. They often use unique names, numeric formats, or structured identifiers to represent documents. GENRE [61] generates entity names via constrained beam search using a prefix tree, with document titles serving as DocIDs. DSI [352] introduces numeric DocID formats, including unstructured, naively structured, and semantically structured identifiers, trained through indexing and retrieval strategies. DynamicRetriever [502] uses unstructured atomic DocIDs and enhances memorization with pseudo queries. SEAL [19]