7.3 Retrieval The challenges in multimodal retrieval underscore the complexity of integrating and retrieving information across diverse data types. To address these issues and advance the field, future research should prioritize the following directions: • Unified Cross-Modal Representation Learning: The primary objective is to develop robust and unified representation learning frameworks that effectively align and compare data across diverse modalities, including text, images, audio, and video. A key element of this framework is the enhancement of cross-modal attention mechanisms to better model complex interactions between modalities. Cross-modal attention layers, inspired by transformer architectures, are central to capturing fine-grained relationships. These mechanisms enable one modality to focus on relevant features in another, allowing the model to dynamically prioritize the most informative aspects of the data. For example, text can guide attention over visual regions, or audio cues can emphasize relevant temporal segments in video data. Techniques such as multi-head cross-modal attention and hierarchical attention further refine this process, ensuring robust and context-aware representations. • Cross-Modal Context: The primary objective is to improve the ability of models to perform fine-grained interactions between modalities, particularly in the reranking and refinement stages. – Reranker: Multi-Modal Reranking Models rerank retrieved document list by incorporating detailed cross-modal interactions, such as text-image, text-audio, or video-text relationships. By integrating LLMs and MLLMs, reranking models enhance their ability to capture nuanced semantic alignments between modalities. – Refiner: Leveraging their cross-modal reasoning abilities, MLLMs refine retrieval results through knowledge-enhanced refinement, yielding more accurate, contextually relevant, and semantically rich outputs. This refinement process utilizes MLLMs’ contextual understanding and multimodal alignment to re-rank, filter, or augment retrieved content. , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018. 56 Trovato et al. 7.4 Generation The future of multimodal generation should focus on overcoming existing challenges on multimodal input and output. Below