queries that necessitate multi-hop reasoning, the enhanced query Q∗ may be further decomposed into a series of atomic sub-queries {𝑞∗ 1, ..., 𝑞∗ 𝑛 }. Each sub-query is meticulously formulated by considering both textual and visual contexts, as well as the accumulated knowledge from previous iterations, when relevant. This decomposition allows for a more granular and precise retrieval process, addressing the nuanced dependencies and ambiguities present in real-world queries. This dual-task approach optimizes information acquisition by minimizing unnecessary retrievals while maximizing the relevance of retrieved content. The structured planning framework signifi- cantly enhances the MRAG system’s ability to gather comprehensive and accurate information, ensuring computational efficiency. 3 Components & Technologies of MRAG In this section, we will sequentially introduce the details of the five key technical components of MRAG: Multimodal Document Parsing and Indexing (section3.1), Multimodal Search Planning (section 3.2), Multimodal Retrieval (section 3.3), Multimodal Generation (section 3.4) , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018. 12 Trovato et al. 3.1 Multimodal Document Parsing and Indexing MRAG systems significantly enhance the reliability and quality of generated answers, by integrating target multimodal knowledge from external multimodal knowledge bases. Target multimodal knowl- edge can be derived from various granularity in knowledge bases, including localized segments within a single document, cross-segment references within a document, or even cross-document knowledge collections. Thus, how to effectively parse, index, and organize the multimodal docu- ments in external knowledge bases, can largely affect the model’s utilization of target multimodal knowledge, thereby determining end-to-end performance. In this section, we first classify docu- ments in multimodal knowledge bases according to their structure, then we provide a detailed introduction to the parsing methods and the evolution of these methods for different types of multimodal documents. Specifically, multimodal documents can be categorized into the following three types: •