1) Non-adaptive Retrieval Queries: inflexible retrieval strategies that fail to adjust to evolving contexts or intermediate results; and 2) Overloaded Retrieval Queries: concatenating , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: April 2018. 16 Trovato et al. visual content descriptions with input questions into a single query, leading to ambiguous retrievals and irrelevant knowledge. To address these issues, OmniSearch [197] introduces a self-adaptive planning agent for multimodal retrieval, mimicking human problem-solving behavior. Instead of relying on a fixed pipeline, the system dynamically breaks down complex multimodal questions into sub-question chains with retrieval actions. At each step, the agent adapts its next action based on the problem-solving state and retrieved content, enabling deeper understanding of retrieved information and adaptive refinement of retrieval strategies. CogPlanner [440] iteratively refines queries and selects retrieval strategies, enabling both parallel and sequential modeling approaches. 3.3 Multimodal Retrieval In this section, we present a comprehensive overview of the three critical components of multimodal retrieval in the MRAG system: retriever (section 3.3.1), reranker, and refiner. Each component plays a distinct yet interconnected role in enhancing the quality and relevance of information retrieval and utilization for LLMs. We summarize the taxonomy of multimodal retrieval research in Figure 6. 3.3.1 RETRIEVER. The retriever is a core component that sources relevant documents from a large external knowledge base using advanced indexing and search algorithms. It retrieves candidate information aligned with user queries, aiming to provide a broad yet relevant set of documents to support high-quality LLM responses. Its performance is crucial, as it directly influences the quality of the downstream retrieval pipeline. As shown in Figure 7, existing retrieval methods fall into two categories based on architecture: Single/Dual-stream Structure and Generative Structure, each involves single-modal (e.g., text, images) and cross-modal information retrieval. • Single/Dual-stream Structure: The Single-stream Structure integrates multimodal