in extending the context window length of existing LLMs. The experi- mental outcomes and extensive data validate the framework’s superiority over five baseline models in terms of BLEU and ROUGE performance metrics, with substantial leads in certain capabilities. Notably, ablation studies confirm the significance of the TEIR and EICL components. In addition, our new framework has the potential to significantly improve patient satisfaction in real clinical consulting situations. Keywords: Large Language Models (LLMs) · Medical Consultation · Terminology-Enhanced Information Retrieval (TEIR) · Emotional In- Context Learning (EICL) ⋆ These authors contributed to the work equally and should be regarded as co-first authors. ** Corresponding author. arXiv:2503.17876v1 [cs.CL] 22 Mar 2025 2 J. Tang et al. 1 Introduction Medical consultation has always been a cornerstone of healthcare services, pro- viding necessary guidance and information to individuals seeking medical atten- tion [1]. Traditionally, these consultations occurred face-to-face within clinical settings. However, the uneven distribution of medical resources and an underde- veloped referral system in China have led to prolonged waiting times and limited consultation periods for many patients [2]. Additionally, patients often encounter fear and anxiety when seeking medical help. Consequently, the language em- ployed in communication during medical consultations holds great significance for both healthcare providers and patients [2]. Should doctors fall short of meet- ing patients’ unrealistically high expectations during medical consultations [1], it can result in dissatisfaction among patients. Therefore, patients’ emotions and satisfaction during these consultations should never be neglected. Nowadays, the rapid evolution of digital technology has ushered in a new era of medical service delivery. A significant proportion of medical consultations transpire online [3–5], offering unprecedented accessibility and convenience to patients. This digital transformation has not only redefined the interaction be- tween healthcare providers and patients but has also generated a massive influx of data [6].