and it is thoughtfully aimed at bringing a comforting user experience by improving the efficiency of medical consultation [20–22,24–26]. 3 Methodology Our framework introduces an innovative approach to enhance the reliability of the generated content: (1) Terminology-Enhanced Information Retrieval (TEIR) constitutes the first part of our framework, focusing on the extraction and utilization of contextually significant information. The overall pipeline is shown in 3.1. (2)Emotional In-Context Learning (EICL) is the second part of our methodology, dedicated to understanding and integrating the emotional dimensions of the text. It leverages the generative capabilities of the framework, enriched with a nuanced understanding of emotional attributes. 3.1 Terminology-Enhanced Information Retrieval (TEIR) qt RetrieverTerminology Tt2 TtkTt1 Tt1 Tt1->R1 Tt1->RM... Ttk Ttk->R1 Ttk->RM...Tt2 Tt2->R1 Tt2->RM... Memory1 Memory3Memory2 Terminology Memory RetrievalTerminology Detector ... Enhanced Sentence R1,...,RM Fig. 2. The overall pipeline of Terminology-Enhanced Information Retrieval (TEIR). 6 J. Tang et al. The first part of our framework, Terminology-Enhanced Information Re- trieval, focuses on extracting and utilizing contextually significant information through a synergy of three core components in the enhancement: Terminology Detector (TD): Utilize a Universal Information Extraction (UIE)-based model D to realize terminology detection, ensuring the retrieval process is sharply focused and aligned with the specified attributes. Terminology Memory (TM): After TD process we can get N different terminologies T = {Tn}N n=1. However, in the actual medical knowledge base, different terminologies may correspond to the same meaning, so we have to do a simple filtering and alignment. We save the processed terms to the TM module, which ensures that subsequent questions can also be indexed to relevant terminologies and in turn allows the model to be progressively tuned as the dialogue progresses. It is worth noting that in this process we link the terminology in the TM one-to-one with the documents in the knowledge database, which