human-embedded sentiment analysis tools might be supplemented by the AraSenCorpus model introduced by Al-laith et al., which has redefined the scale of sentiment analysis with proficient senti- ment annotation on a large-scale text corpus [22]. GRACE memorizes semantic and attribute information from unmarked corpora and obtains the required in- formation through controllable re-retrieval [23]. Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length 5 Online medical consultation heavily relies on a patient’s trust, a significantly multidimensional element [21]. Trust bears an impact on patients’ decision to continue the use of online services, and as shown by Yang et al., the incorporation of both technological and interpersonal aspects improves the chances of service continuity [21]. Further, analysis by Wan et al. revealed other influencing factors such as doctors’ soft skills and overall service experience that enhance the volume of doctor consultation on online platforms [24]. In addition to trust, efficiency and patient satisfaction have been recognized as substantial factors contributing to the success of an online medical consulta- tion framework. Using the employment of scribes as an example, Gidwani et al. demonstrated their positive impact on physician satisfaction and charting effi- ciency, without impinging upon patient satisfaction [25]. The shifting dynamics were further reflected in Jiang et al.’s study, pointing out service-related features like service delivery quality and patient involvement to be more significant than physician reputation, in patients’ payment decisions [26]. Overall, combining these aspects, the proposed method is well-supported by earlier research, and it is thoughtfully aimed at bringing a comforting user experience by improving the efficiency of medical consultation [20–22,24–26]. 3 Methodology Our framework introduces an innovative approach to enhance the reliability of the generated content: (1) Terminology-Enhanced Information Retrieval (TEIR) constitutes the first part of our framework, focusing on the extraction and utilization of contextually significant information. The overall pipeline