Fig. 1. An example of model responses, which involves retrieving information about dental treatments, processing inquiries about these treatments, and identifying the emotional tone of the information presented. 2 Related Work 2.1 Keyword Retrieval Generation Recently, many studies have provided a diverse look into the application of key- word retrieval generation in online medical consultations [12]. These cover areas 4 J. Tang et al. from the training of large language models (LLMs) for medical chats to the systematic extraction of information from electronic medical records and the use of metadata and knowledge graphs for improved dialogue generation [13]. These insights are crucial for developing a new framework aimed at improving the accuracy, efficiency, and patient satisfaction of online medical consultations. In the realm of enhancing online medical consultation, recent studies have introduced various innovative approaches. ChatDoctor [14] details the training of a generic conversation model tailored for medical consultations, emphasiz- ing advanced keyword retrieval techniques. Concurrently, Yu et al. [15] propose a taxonomy for the utility of ChatGPT in healthcare, highlighting the role of Large Language Models in keyword retrieval and information generation. Fur- ther, Ford et al. [16] examine the use of US hospital-based EMRs, employing keyword searches and rule-based algorithms to enhance medical document re- trieval, and Malet et al. [17] discuss the use of Medical Core Metadata to improve keyword-based retrieval in medical consultations. IAG [18] combines the advan- tages of retrieval and prompt methods, generates knowledge through keywords inductive enhancement, and inputs it into the generator along with the retrieved documents, leading to strong performance in open-domain question-answering tasks. Lastly, Nature introduces a method for knowledge graph enhanced med- ical dialogue generation, leveraging the Unified Medical Language System for more accurate and relevant medical dialogues [19]. Our proposed framework encompasses a multifaceted approach to enhance online