Water, juices, clear soups, or hot lemonade are all good choices. Avoid caffeine and alcohol; these ingredients increase fluid loss. Sentiment: Positive. subtleties of emotional undercurrents in conversations, helping it predict and, in real-world applications, provide responses that are not only factually correct but also emotionally attuned to the patient’s needs. More specifically, here we construct a regenerated method using ECIL that utilizes sentiment to achieve better quality response content generation. In the table 1 we show a real case study. Considering the specialized nature of medical databases, some of the re- sponses are difficult to be well understood by the consultants, and our approach can achieve increased consultant satisfaction through such context-based self- supervised feedback. 4 Experiment In this section, we first introduce the dataset, experimental setup, and base- line methods, followed by an exposition of the evaluation metrics and overall results, which include 803,564 medical consultation data entries. To ensure the efficacy of our model evaluation, this study also employs two metrics: BLEU-5 and ROUGE-2/L for assessment. 4.1 Experiment setup Datasets In order to develop and enhance the model’s performance, our dataset utilizes a powerful web crawler system to gather a large dataset containing 803,564 medical consultation records. This dataset spans 12 distinct medical departments and includes more than 10 varied medical Q&A scenarios, it encom- passes patient inquiries about symptoms and treatments, health consultations, medical advice, and general medical knowledge. Furthermore, the data has been meticulously processed to ensure the removal of any personal identifiers, uphold- ing patient confidentiality and adhering to strict privacy standards. These data are beneficial for training the model. Utilizing 30% of the dataset for testing purposes and allocating the remaining 70% for training the model significantly enhances the model’s reliability. This distribution of data ensures a comprehen- sive learning process while maintaining