Satisfactory Medical Consultation based on Terminology-Enhanced Information Retrieval and Emotional In-Context Learning ⋆ Jing Tang1,∗, Kaiwen Zuo 2,∗, Hanbing Qin 3, Binli Luo 1, Ligang He 2, and Shiyan Tang4,∗∗ 1 School of Mechanical Science and Engineering, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, Hubei, China, focusers@163.com 2 School of Computer Science, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK, Kaiwen.Zuo@warwick.ac.uk,ligang.he@warwick.ac.uk 3 School of Software and Microelectronics, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China, qinhanbing@stu.pku.edu.cn 4 MRC Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, OX1 2JD, UK, shiyan.tang@ndcls.ox.ac.uk Abstract. Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have marked significant progress in understanding and responding to medical inquiries. However, their performance still falls short of the standards set by professional consultations. This paper introduces a novel framework for medical consultation, comprising two main mod- ules: Terminology-Enhanced Information Retrieval (TEIR) and Emo- tional In-Context Learning (EICL). TEIR ensures implicit reasoning through the utilization of inductive knowledge and key terminology re- trieval, overcoming the limitations of restricted domain knowledge in public databases. Additionally, this module features capabilities for pro- cessing long context. The EICL module aids in generating sentences with high attribute relevance by memorizing semantic and attribute informa- tion from unlabelled corpora and applying controlled retrieval for the required information. Furthermore, a dataset comprising 803,564 consul- tation records was compiled in China, significantly enhancing the model’s capability for complex dialogues and proactive inquiry initiation. Com- prehensive experiments demonstrate the proposed method’s effectiveness in extending the context window length of existing LLMs. The experi- mental outcomes and extensive data validate the framework’s superiority over five baseline models in terms of BLEU and ROUGE performance metrics, with substantial leads in certain capabilities. Notably, ablation studies confirm the significance of the TEIR and EICL components. In addition, our new framework has the potential to significantly