healthcare solutions. Given the limited time doctors spend with each patient and ongoing patient complaints, satisfaction with medical consultations is not consistently achieved. Our new framework has the potential to create a more satisfying med- ical consultation environment for patients by addressing their emotions. Ad- ditionally, our framework promises to contribute to future medical education, offering insights on establishing effective patient relationships, which could lead to higher patient satisfaction rates. References [1] Ilan S Schwartz, Katherine E Link, Roxana Daneshjou, and Nicol´ as Cort´ es- Penfield. Black box warning: large language models and the future of in- fectious diseases consultation. Clinical Infectious Diseases , page ciad633, 2023. [2] Yuxin Wang and Shunda Du. Time to rebuild the doctor-patient relation- ship in china. Hepatobiliary Surgery and Nutrition , 12(2):235, 2023. [3] Hussain A Younis, Taiseer Abdalla Elfadil Eisa, Maged Nasser, Thaeer Mueen Sahib, Ameen A Noor, Osamah Mohammed Alyasiri, Sani Salisu, Israa M Hayder, and Hameed AbdulKareem Younis. A system- atic review and meta-analysis of artificial intelligence tools in medicine and healthcare: Applications, considerations, limitations, motivation and chal- lenges. Diagnostics, 14(1):109, 2024. [4] Per Engelseth, BE White, Ingunn Mundal, Trude Fløystad Eines, and Duangpun Kritchanchai. Systems modelling to support the complex na- ture of healthcare services. Health and Technology, 11:193–209, 2021. [5] Ian L Alberts, Lorenzo Mercolli, Thomas Pyka, George Prenosil, Kuangyu Shi, Axel Rominger, and Ali Afshar-Oromieh. Large language models (llm) and chatgpt: what will the impact on nuclear medicine be?European journal of nuclear medicine and molecular imaging , 50(6):1549–1552, 2023. [6] Abdulmotaleb El Saddik and Sara Ghaboura. The integration of chatgpt with the metaverse for medical consultations. IEEE Consumer Electronics Magazine, 2023. [7] Maksut Senbekov, Timur Saliev, Zhanar Bukeyeva, Aigul Almabayeva, Marina Zhanaliyeva, Nazym Aitenova, Yerzhan Toishibekov, Ildar Fakhradiyev, et al. The recent progress and applications of digital tech-