through keywords inductive enhancement, and inputs it into the generator along with the retrieved documents, leading to strong performance in open-domain question-answering tasks. Lastly, Nature introduces a method for knowledge graph enhanced med- ical dialogue generation, leveraging the Unified Medical Language System for more accurate and relevant medical dialogues [19]. Our proposed framework encompasses a multifaceted approach to enhance online medical consultations. It includes an advanced keyword retrieval gen- eration system designed to improve the accuracy and relevance of information retrieval. Additionally, the framework integrates Template Engineering and Sen- timent Annotation Generation, a feature that analyzes and responds to the emo- tional tone of patient inquiries, ensuring a more empathetic and personalized consultation experience. Further details of each component will be introduced and explored in the following sections. 2.2 Template Engineering and Sentiment Annotation Generation In the quickly emerging field of online medical consultation, the integration of various methods such as Template Engineering and Sentiment Annotation shows immense scope for the enhancement of accuracy, efficiency, and patient satisfac- tion [20, 21]. This approach, as the proposed paper plans to further explore, primarily employs techniques previously explored in different fields, the most notable among them being sentiment analysis and multidimensional trust. Wouter van Atteveldt et al. demonstrated the effectiveness of manual anno- tation and crowd coding in sentiment analysis [20], a component that plays a pivotal role in gaining insights from patients’ sentiments during online medical consultation. This historical emphasis on human-embedded sentiment analysis tools might be supplemented by the AraSenCorpus model introduced by Al-laith et al., which has redefined the scale of sentiment analysis with proficient senti- ment annotation on a large-scale text corpus [22]. GRACE memorizes semantic and attribute information from unmarked corpora and obtains the required in- formation through controllable re-retrieval [23]. Title Suppressed Due to Excessive Length