Vol.:(0123456789) Information Retrieval Journal https://doi.org/10.1007/s10791-021-09398-0 1 3 Neural ranking models for document retrieval Mohamed Trabelsi1 · Zhiyu Chen1 · Brian D. Davison1 · Jeff Heflin1 Received: 8 February 2021 / Accepted: 2 October 2021 © The Author(s) 2021 Abstract Ranking models are the main components of information retrieval systems. Several approaches to ranking are based on traditional machine learning algorithms using a set of hand-crafted features. Recently, researchers have leveraged deep learning models in infor - mation retrieval. These models are trained end-to-end to extract features from the raw data for ranking tasks, so that they overcome the limitations of hand-crafted features. A variety of deep learning models have been proposed, and each model presents a set of neural net- work components to extract features that are used for ranking. In this paper, we compare the proposed models in the literature along different dimensions in order to understand the major contributions and limitations of each model. In our discussion of the literature, we analyze the promising neural components, and propose future research directions. We also show the analogy between document retrieval and other retrieval tasks where the items to be ranked are structured documents, answers, images and videos. Keywords Document retrieval · Learning to rank · Neural ranking models · Information retrieval 1 Introduction Recent advances in neural networks enable the improvement in the performance of mul- tiple fields including computer vision, natural language processing, machine translation, speech recognition, etc. The main neural components that led to the breakthrough in mul- tiple fields are convolutional and recurrent neural networks. Information retrieval (IR) also benefits from deep neural network models leading to state-of-the-art results in multiple tasks. * Mohamed Trabelsi mot218@lehigh.edu Zhiyu Chen zhc415@lehigh.edu Brian D. Davison davison@cse.lehigh.edu Jeff Heflin heflin@cse.lehigh.edu 1 Computer Science and Engineering, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA, USA