al., 2016; Xiong et al., 2016). Knowledge bases can be incorporated in neural ranking models in multiple ways. The AttR-Duet system (Xiong et al., 2017a) uses the knowledge base to compute an additional entity representation for document and query tokens. There are four possible interactions between word-based feature vectors and entity-based feature vectors based on the inter- and intra-space matching signals. The textual attributes of entities such as the description and names are used in inter-space interactions of entities and words. AttR-Duet learns entity embeddings from the knowledge graph (Wang et al., 2017) and uses a similarity measure on these embeddings to determine intra-space interactions of entities. The ranking model combines the four types of interactions with attention weights to reduce the effect of entity linking mistakes on the ranking score. Knowledge graph semantics can be incorporated into interaction-based neural ranking models as proposed by Liu et al., (2018). The authors propose combining three representa- tions for an entity in a knowledge graph: entity embedding, description embedding, and type embedding. The final entity representation is integrated into kernel pooling-based ranking models, such as K-NRM (Xiong et al., 2017b) and Conv-KNRM (Dai et al., 2018), with word-level interaction matrices to compute the final relevance score of a query-doc- ument pair. Shen et al., (2018) develop a knowledge-aware attentive neural-ranking model which learns both context-based and knowledge-based sentence representations. The pro- posed method leverages external knowledge from the KB using an entity mention step for tokens in the inputs. A bi-LSTM computes a context-aware embedding matrix, which is then used to compute context-guided knowledge vectors. These knowledge vectors are Information Retrieval Journal 1 3 multiplied by the attention weights to compute the final context-guided embedding for each token. Inspired by traditional ranking techniques that use Pseudo Relevance Feedback (PRF) (Hedin et al.,