using separate models. This research utilizes a descriptive dataset of Quranic surahs including the meanings, historical context, and qualities of the 114 surahs, allowing the model to gather relevant knowledge before responding. The models are evaluated using three key metrics set by human evaluators: context relevance, answer faithfulness, and answer relevance. The findings reveal that large models consistently outperform smaller models in capturing query semantics and producing accurate, contextually grounded responses. The Llama3.2:3b model, even though it is considered small, does very well on faithfulness (4.619) and relevance (4.857), showing the promise of smaller architectures that have been well optimized. This article examines the trade-offs between model size, computational efficiency, and response quality while using LLMs in domain-specific applications. Keywords— Large-Language-Models, Retrieval-Augmented Generation, Question Answering, Quranic Studies, Islamic Teachings I. I NTRODUCTION Natural language processing (NLP) has been transformed as a result of the development of large language models (LLMs), which made it possible for these models to handle a wide range of activities. These include summarization and translation, as well as answering domain-specific questions [1]. Further, these models can even serve as a good anno- tator for a number of NLP tasks [2]. Recent studies have explored the use of NLP in various domain-specific including Quranic studies, legal system, and medical field focusing on developing question-answering system. Alnefie et al. (2023) [3] has evaluated the effectiveness of GPT-4 in answering Quran-related questions and highlighting challenges in context understanding and answer accuracy. However, their work is limited by its reliance on a general-purpose LLM without domain-specific fine-tuning, which affects responce precision for nuance religious queries. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has been succesfully applied in general knowledge such as medical domains to mitigate these issues [4], and legal domain such as research conducted by Pipitone and Alami (2024) [5] introduced LegalBench-RAG to