conducted as shown in Table 2. Evaluations on the PopQA dataset were conducted to demonstrate the performance change in terms of accuracy. Specifically, when the action Correct or Incorrect was removed, it was merged with Ambiguous so that the proportion that originally triggered Correct or Incorrect would trigger Ambiguous. On the other hand, when the action Ambiguous was removed, there was only one threshold against which all input queries clearly triggered Correct or Incorrect. From these results, it can be seen that there was a performance drop no matter which action was removed, illustrat- ing that each action contributed to improving the robustness of generation. To further illustrate the study, experiments are also conducted by triggering only one action once, and the results shown in the appendix also prove the consistency. Accuracy Our Retrieval Evaluator (T5-based) 84.3 ChatGPT 58.0 ChatGPT-CoT 62.4 ChatGPT-few-shot 64.7 Table 4: Evaluation of our retrieval evaluator and ChatGPT for the retrieval results on the PopQA dataset. The impact of each knowledge utilization oper- ation. Table 3 illustrated how the performance changed if a key knowledge utilization operation was ablated. Evaluations on the PopQA dataset in terms of accuracy were conducted by individually removing the knowledge utilization operations of document refinement, search query rewriting, and external knowledge selection. Removing document refinement denoted that the original retrieved docu- ments were directly fed to the following generator, as in most existing works. Additionally, removing search query rewriting denoted that questions were not rewritten into queries consisting of keywords during knowledge searching. Eventually, removing knowledge selection denoted that all searched con- tent of web pages was all regarded as the external knowledge without selection. These results help derive the findings that the performance of the final system degraded no matter which knowledge utilization operation was removed, revealing that each knowledge