FLOPs per token on GPUs and executing time per instance. The upper bound of Self-CRAG is lower because only three passages are provided as input (correct, incorrect and ambiguous content). All the data in the table only represents a rough estimate of the generation phase, the retrieval and data-processing stages are not included. anism, rather than solely from the supplementary information obtained through web searches. To further demonstrate the effectiveness of the pro- posed self-correction mechanism, both RAG and Self-RAG were consistently supplemented with web search knowledge to ensure they had access to the same scope of the retrieved knowledge. The results in Table 5 show that consistently supplementing RAG or Self-RAG with web search knowledge can improve the performance in most cases (except Self-RAG w. web using the original LLaMA2 model), though the improvement remains limited. Furthermore, augmenting RAG or Self- RAG with the proposed self-correction mechanism significantly outperformed the models consistently supplemented with web search knowledge in all cases. This finding confirms that the observed advancements are primarily attributable to the proposed self-correction mechanism. 5.8 Computational Overhead Analysis To illustrate that our self-correction mechanism serves as a lightweight, plug-and-play solution for various RAG-based frameworks, we measured the computational overhead. FLOPs prediction formulas in Narayanan et al. (2021) were employed, with the results presented in Table 6 which shows the predicted FLOPs per token on GPUs. Due to the adaptive nature of Self-RAG, which varies its generation strategies based on input, the compu- tational overhead cannot be precisely determined. Therefore, we present an estimated range instead. Additionally, we conducted the experiments on PopQA to assess the average execution time per instance in practice, as detailed in Table 6. The findings indicate that the self-correction mecha- nism incurs only modest computational overhead while significantly enhancing performance, thereby validating its lightweight