language models (LLMs) have attracted increasing attention and exhibited impressive abili- ties to understand instructions and generate fluent language texts (Brown et al., 2020; Ouyang et al., 2022; Touvron et al., 2023a). Nevertheless, LLMs inevitably manifest hallucinations (Ji et al., 2023) due to their struggle with factual errors (Mallen et al., 2023; Min et al., 2023) and inability to secure the accuracy of generated texts solely by * Equal contribution. 1The code is available at github.com/HuskyInSalt/CRAG Q: What is Henry Feilden's occupation? Henry Feilden (Conservative politician):Henry Master Feilden was an Conservative Party politician… Politician.✓ Q: Who was the screenwriter for Death of a Batman? Batman (1989 film): of the murder of Bruce Wayne's parents. When Hamm'sscript was rewritten, … Retriever ✗Hamm. RetrievedDocuments Generator Accurate DocumentsInaccurate Documents Generator Figure 1: The examples show that a low-quality retriever is prone to introducing a substantial amount of irrelevant information, impeding the generators from acquiring accurate knowledge and potentially misleading them. the parametric knowledge they encapsulate (Zhang et al., 2023b; Muhlgay et al., 2023). Prior research has introduced the retrieval tech- niques to incorporate the knowledge relevant to input and augment generation, as exemplified by retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) (Lewis et al., 2020). In this framework, the input to models is augmented by prepending relevant documents that are retrieved from an external knowledge corpus (Guu et al., 2020). While RAG serves as a practicable complement to LLMs, its effectiveness is contingent upon the relevance and accuracy of the retrieved documents (Li et al., 2022; Tan et al., 2022). The heavy reliance of generation on the retrieved knowledge raises significant concerns about the model’s behavior and performance in scenarios where retrieval may fail or return inaccu- rate results (Shi et al., 2023). As Figure 1 shows that a low-quality retriever is prone to introducing arXiv:2401.15884v3 [cs.CL]