of the retrieved documents. A confidence degree is quantified based on which different knowledge retrieval actions of {Correct, Incorrect, Ambiguous} can be triggered. For the latter two actions, large-scale web searches (Piktus et al., 2021; Komeili et al., 2022) are integrated as a strategic extension, since retrieval from static and limited corpora can only return sub-optimal documents in terms of scope and diversity. This augmentation is implemented to broaden the spectrum of retrieved information, harnessing the expansive and dynamic nature of the web to complement and enrich the initially obtained documents. Furthermore, to eliminate redundant contexts contained in retrieved documents that are unhelpful for RAG, a decompose-then-recompose algorithm is meticulously crafted throughout the retrieval and utilization process. This algorithm ensures the refinement of retrieved information, optimizing the extraction of key insights and minimizing the inclusion of non-essential elements, thereby enhancing the utilization of retrieved data. CRAG is plug-and-play and experimentally implemented into RAG (Lewis et al., 2020) and Self-RAG (Asai et al., 2024) for demonstrating its adaptability to RAG-based approaches. Results on four datasets of PopQA (Mallen et al., 2023), Biog- raphy (Min et al., 2023), Pub Health (Zhang et al., 2023a), and Arc-Challenge (Bhakthavatsalam et al., 2021) show that CRAG can significantly improve the performance of standard RAG and state-of-the- art Self-RAG, demonstrating its generalizability across both short- and long-form generation tasks. To facilitate others to reproduce our results, we will publish all source code later. In summary, our contributions in this paper are three-fold: 1) This paper studies the scenarios where the retriever returns inaccurate results and, to the best of our knowledge, makes the first attempt to design corrective strategies for RAG to improve its robustness. 2) A plug-and-play method named CRAG is proposed to improve the ability of automatic self-correction and efficient utilization of retrieved documents.