that knowledge from large-scale web searches could introduce biases or unreliable information, authoritative and regulated web pages like Wikipedia are preferred, which can significantly help mitigate these issues. Moreover, we utilize the URL links to navigate web pages, transcribe their content, and employ the same knowledge refinement method as Section 4.4 to derive the relevant web knowledge, namely external knowledge. 5 Experiments We conducted experiments to extensively demon- strate CRAG ’s adaptability to RAG-based ap- proaches and its generalizability across both short- and long-form generation tasks. 5.1 Tasks, Datasets and Metrics CRAG was evaluated on four datasets, including PopQA (Mallen et al., 2023) ( short-form gener- ation), Biography (Min et al., 2023) ( long-form generation), PubHealth (Zhang et al., 2023a) (true- or-false question), and Arc-Challenge (Bhaktha- vatsalam et al., 2021) ( multiple-choice question). Following previous work, accuracy was adopted as the evaluation metric for PopQA, PubHealth, and Arc-Challenge. FactScore (Min et al., 2023) was adopted as the evaluation metric for Biography. Readers can refer to Appendix B.1 for more details. The same metrics are used because our proposed method is comparable to previous studies, since we used the same retrieval results as previous work. The difference lies in that our motivation is to improve the retrieval quality by correcting the retrieval results that the system judges to be of low quality. This can be analogous to RAG’s augmentation to standalone parameterized language models and we further augment RAG with corrective strategies. 5.2 Baselines We primarily compared CRAG with both ap- proaches with and without retrieval, where the latter can be further split into standard RAG and latest advanced RAG, including: Baselines without retrieval. We evaluated some public LLMs, LLaMA2-7B,13B (Touvron et al., 2023b), instruction-tuned models, Alpaca-7B,13B (Dubois et al., 2023), and CoVE 65B (Dhuliawala et al., 2024) which introduces iterative