accuracy of the retrieved documents (Li et al., 2022; Tan et al., 2022). The heavy reliance of generation on the retrieved knowledge raises significant concerns about the model’s behavior and performance in scenarios where retrieval may fail or return inaccu- rate results (Shi et al., 2023). As Figure 1 shows that a low-quality retriever is prone to introducing arXiv:2401.15884v3 [cs.CL] 7 Oct 2024 a substantial amount of irrelevant information, impeding the models from acquiring accurate knowledge and potentially misleading them, result- ing in issues such as hallucinations (Zhang et al., 2023b). However, most conventional RAG ap- proaches indiscriminately incorporate the retrieved documents, regardless of whether these documents are relevant or not (Rony et al., 2022). Furthermore, current methods mostly treat complete documents as reference knowledge both during retrieval and utilization. But a considerable portion of the text within these retrieved documents is often non- essential for generation, which should not have been equally referred to and involved in RAG. On account of the above issues, this paper particularly studies the scenarios where the retriever returns inaccurate results. A method named Corrective Retrieval-Augmented Generation ( CRAG ) is proposed to self-correct the results of retriever and improve the utilization of documents for augmenting generation. A lightweight retrieval evaluator is designed to assess the overall quality of retrieved documents for a query. This serves as a crucial component in RAG, contributing to informative generation by reviewing and evaluating the relevance and reliability of the retrieved documents. A confidence degree is quantified based on which different knowledge retrieval actions of {Correct, Incorrect, Ambiguous} can be triggered. For the latter two actions, large-scale web searches (Piktus et al., 2021; Komeili et al., 2022) are integrated as a strategic extension, since retrieval from static and limited corpora can only return sub-optimal documents in terms of