implementation details of our proposed methods. From these results, we can conclude the following findings: First, the proposed method can significantly improve the performance of RAG and Self-RAG. Specifically, as shown in table 1, CRAG outper- formed RAG by margins of 7.0% accuracy on PopQA, 14.9% FactScore on Biography, 36.6% accuracy on PubHealth, and 15.4% accuracy on Arc-Challenge when based on SelfRAG-LLaMA2- 7b, as well as by margins of 4.4% accuracy on PopQA, 2.8% FactScore on Biography, and 10.3% on Arc-Challenge when based on LLaMA2- hf-7b. Compared with the current state-of-the- art Self-RAG, Self-CRAG outperformed it by margins of 20.0% accuracy on PopQA, 36.9% FactScore on Biography, and 4.0% accuracy on Arc-Challenge when based on LLaMA2-hf-7b, as well as by margins of 6.9% accuracy on PopQA, 5.0% FactScore on Biography, and 2.4% accuracy on PubHealth, when based on SelfRAG-LLaMA2- 7b. These results demonstrated the adaptability of CRAG which is plug-and-play and can be implemented into RAG-based approaches. Second, the proposed method demonstrated great generalizability across a variety of gen- eration tasks. In particular, these benchmarks reported in Table 1 respectively represent different practical scenarios including short-form entity generation (PopQA), long-form generation (Bi- ography), and closed-set tasks (PubHealth, Arc- Challenge). These results verified the consistent effectiveness ofCRAG . Its versatility across a spec- trum of tasks underscores its robust capabilities and generalizability across diverse scenarios. Third, the proposed method exhibited greater flexibility in replacing the underlying LLM gen- erator. It can be seen that CRAG still showed competitive performance when the underlying LLMs was changed from SelfRAG-LLaMA2-7b to LLaMA2-hf-7b, while the performance of Self- RAG dropped significantly, even underperforming the standard RAG on several benchmarks. The reason for these results is that Self-RAG needs to be instruction-tuned using human or LLM annotated data to learn to output special critic tokens as