processes queryqto predict retrieval count: kpred =Classifier(q) 2. The retriever fetcheskfixed passages (basic retrieval). 3. The LLM reranker filters passages: Pfiltered =LLM_Reranker(q, k pred, Pfixed) |Pfiltered|=k pred 4. The generator produces output:y=Generator(q, P filtered) 5 Experimental setup To evaluate our proposed approach, we conducted experiments using a variety of retrievers on three datasets, using the three pipelines. We describe the relevant configurations for each setup below. 8 M. Iratni et al. 5.1 Retrievers – BM25:A sparse retrieval with scores computed by the BM25 model. – Dense Retrieval: A vector-based retrieval system using cosine similarity. Passages were embedded using theall-MiniLM-L6-v2model from Sentence- Transformers, and the Chromadb vector store. – ColBERT + MonoT5: A two-stage retrieval pipeline using ColBERT and a monoT5 reranker. – ColBERT + BAAI/bge-reranker-large: An alternative configuration using ColBERT paired with the BGE-large reranker. Both two-stage configurations included the retrieval of top-50 candidates with ColBERT and top-kreranking with either MonoT5 or BGE-Reranker. 5.2 Dataset and Evaluation Metrics – MuSiQue: [13]We aggregated all unique passages from the dev set of the MuSiQue-Ans dataset to form our retrieval corpus, yeilding≈22k passages. – 2WikiMultihopQA:[4]Noretrievalcomponentwasappliedforthisdataset. Instead, a reranker was employed to reorder the 10 candidate texts per query. – MultihopRAG [12]:This dataset includes a corpus of 603 full-length texts. Basic chunking was applied. An 80/20 split was used, with 80% of the queries allocated for training the classifier and 20% reserved for evaluation. – Evaluation:Retrieval quality was measured using precision and recall. Gen- eration quality was measured using Exact Match (EM) and F1-score (F1). 5.3 Classifier To dynamically predict the number of passages (k) to retrieve per query, we fine-tuned a RoBERTa model on the training collection of all three datasets. The classifier was trained as a multi-class task, where the input is a question and the target is its annotated hop type: