arXiv:2301.05508v1 [cs.IR] 13 Jan 2023 Do the Findings of Document and Passage Retrieval Generalize to the Retrieval of Responses for Dialogues? Gustavo Penha and Claudia Hauﬀ TU Delft {g.penha-1,c.hauff}@tudelft.nl Abstract. A number of learned sparse and dense retrieval approaches have recently been proposed and proven eﬀective in tasks suc h as pas- sage retrieval and document retrieval. In this paper we anal yze with a replicability study if the lessons learned generalize to t he retrieval of responses for dialogues, an important task for the increa singly pop- ular ﬁeld of conversational search. Unlike passage and docu ment re- trieval where documents are usually longer than queries, in response ranking for dialogues the queries (dialogue contexts) are o ften longer than the documents (responses). Additionally, dialogues h ave a particu- lar structure, i.e. multiple utterances by diﬀerent users. With these dif- ferences in mind, we here evaluate how generalizable the fol lowing major ﬁndings from previous works are: (F1) query expansion outperforms a no-expansion baseline; (F2) document expansion outperforms a no- expansion baseline; (F3) zero-shot dense retrieval underperforms sparse baselines; (F4) dense retrieval outperforms sparse baselines; (F5) hard negative sampling is better than random sampling for traini ng dense models. Our experiments 1—based on three diﬀerent information-seeking dialogue datasets—reveal that four out of ﬁve ﬁndings ( F2–F5) gener- alize to our domain. 1 Introduction Conversational search is concerned with creating agents that satisfy an informa- tion need by means of a mixed-initiative conversation through natural language interaction, rather than through the traditional search engine r esults page. A popular approach to conversational search is retrieval-based [3]: given an on- going conversation and a large corpus of historic conversations, r etrieve the response that is best suited from the corpus [45,48,28,47,11]. Due to the ef- fectiveness of heavily pre-trained transformer-based language