still fell short of the original iterative approach. It revealed that without the chunk delete, the longer working context after the first retrieval round led to severe retrieval laziness. Even when information was incomplete, the model tended to avoid fur- ther retrieval operations, effectively degenerating into a One-SHOT strategy. This explains why the combined approach without chunk delete achieved scores nearly same to the pure One-SHOT. Analysis and Implications:Our experiments demonstrate that the two strategies are not com- plementary in their current forms. The Token- Constrained Top-Kmax approach, while effective in isolation, creates longer initial contexts that in- terfere with the iterative retrieval process in two ways: (1) it degrades the performance of the chunk delete tool, leading to the removal of useful in- formation, and (2) it exacerbates retrieval laziness when the chunk delete tool is removed, preventing the model from conducting necessary follow-up searches. From cognitive science’s perspective, “People make better choices with 6 options but ex- perience decision paralysis with 30 options” (Iyen- gar and Lepper, 2000): this is what is happening when combining the strategies: chunk delete works fine when given 5 chunk options in the iterative strategy, but fails when being combined with Top- Kmax, which usually retrieves 30+ chunks. These findings suggest that the one-shot and iter- ative strategies operate under different assumptions about optimal context management and retrieval be- havior. The one-shot strategy benefits from compre- hensive initial retrieval within a controlled context size, while the iterative strategy relies on focused, incremental information gathering with active con- text management. Combining these approaches requires more sophisticated mechanisms to balance context size, relevance filtering, and retrieval moti- vation—an area for future research. 5 Conclusion In this paper, we explored two strategies, namely “casting a bigger net” and “casting a small net mul- tiple times”, supported