consolida- tion. Although this may reﬂect dense consol- idative pneumonia, ﬁndings at least raise concern for the possi- bility of an underlying mass with associated pneumonitis as a possible alternative diagnosis. Regions of conﬂuent consol- idation in the right middle lobe and right suprahilar region, which could repre- sent superimposed infection or atelec- tasis. Right middle lobe consolidation in part due to known underlying metastatic disease with possible superimposed postob- structive infection or atelectasis. Large right perihilar mass with associated extensive atelectasis and regions of conﬂu- ent consolidation in the right middle lobe and right suprahilar region, raising concern for underlying malig- nancy and possible alternative diagnosis of pneumonitis. Apparent right hilar mass, concerning for obstructive adenopa- thy. Conﬂuent consol- idation in right middle lobe and suprahilar region, possibly due to infection or atelectasis. Findings worrisome for large right perihilar mass with extensive atelectasis, suggesting potential malignancy. PA and lateral chest: Signiﬁcantly low lung volume exaggerates mild cardiomegaly, but pulmonary vas- cular engorgement accompanied by mild interstitial edema in the lower lungs has an indication of cardiac decompensation. Clearing fail- ure.Moderate pul- monary edema from the right upper lung , and residual edema considered as the likely explanation for resid- ual opaciﬁcation at the right lung base , unless it proves subsequently unresponsive to diure- sis.Mild pulmonary edema with moderate cardiomegaly , small right pleural eﬀusion , and cephalization of vasculature. Mild pulmonary edema with mod- erate cardiomegaly, small bilateral pleural eﬀusions, and cephal- ization of vasculature, reﬂecting cardiac decompensation. Mild pulmonary edema, moderate cardiomegaly, small right pleural eﬀusion, cephalization of vas- culature, and possible infectious process in right perihilar opacities. 13 CXR-RePaiR-Gen AP chest: Lung volumes are lower, exaggerating severe enlargement of the cardiac silhouette and volume of moderate- sized bilateral pleural eﬀusions.There is enlargement of the cardiac silhouette