to improve CXR-RePaiR [Endo et al. (2021)] to establish a new SOTA benchmark in radiology report impression generations. But purely retrieval-based report writing models like CXR-RepaiR and CXR-ReDonE does not allow the user to modulate the retrievals per their need which is useful for appli- cability in various clinical settings. Below are some limitations with pure retrieval-based approaches, some of which were mentioned for future work in these papers: • Pure retrieval-based report generation may include irrelevant retrievals for no-ﬁndings case reports especially when the number of relevant retrievals, K is set > 1 for gener- ating the report. • There are some unwanted noises in the generations like prior report references, men- tion of doctor names, user speciﬁc details, etc which are extracted as-is if they are available. Pure retrieval-based report generation also suﬀer from duplicate content in the retrievals. • It is also not possible to generate the radiology report in a speciﬁc format which may be the requirement for diﬀerent report generation downstream applications. It may be useful to create structured radiology reports extracting attributes of interest like pathologies, positional information, severity, size etc instead of a raw text output. • Pure retrieval-based systems may have some incoherent information in the generated report as the retrievals may bring sentences from reports belonging to two diﬀerent patients as-is. With very capable generative Large Language Models (LLM) like text-davinci-003, gpt-3.5-turbo(Chat GPT) and gpt-4 being available for the general domain which can generate relevant content based on instructive prompts in a zero-shot or few-shot setting for a wide variety of downstream tasks, it would be useful to explore how they can be leveraged for the work of radiology report generation to assist the radiologists. These models, however, lack the up-to-date information or domain speciﬁc information required speciﬁcally in a medical