pleural eﬀusions, and cephal- ization of vasculature, reﬂecting cardiac decompensation. Mild pulmonary edema, moderate cardiomegaly, small right pleural eﬀusion, cephalization of vas- culature, and possible infectious process in right perihilar opacities. 13 CXR-RePaiR-Gen AP chest: Lung volumes are lower, exaggerating severe enlargement of the cardiac silhouette and volume of moderate- sized bilateral pleural eﬀusions.There is enlargement of the cardiac silhouette with pulmonary vascular congestion and bi- lateral opaciﬁcations consistent with signiﬁ- cant layering eﬀusions and compressive basilar atelectasis. Hazy opaciﬁcation of the hemithoraces is with bilateral pleural eﬀusions and compres- sive atelectasis , along with enlargement of the cardiac silhouette and pulmonary vascu- lar congestion. Hazy opaciﬁcation of the lower lungs suggests bilateral layering pleu- ral eﬀusions with some atelectatic changes at the bases.Hazy opaci- ﬁcations bilaterally are consistent with pleural eﬀusions and compressive atelectasis at the bases. Bilateral pleural eﬀu- sions, compressive at- electasis, enlargement of cardiac silhouette, and pulmonary vas- cular congestion are seen. Mild pulmonary edema and interstitial edema cannot be ex- cluded. Bilateral hazy opaciﬁ- cations, layering pleu- ral eﬀusion, compres- sive atelectasis, en- larged cardiac silhou- ette, pulmonary vascu- lar congestion, bibasi- lar opacities, and pos- sible mild pulmonary edema. 4.7. Instruction Driven Output We also evaluate the instructions following capabilities of GPT-4 by passing speciﬁc prompts to exclude any mentions of prior report reference and follow-up actions in the generated impression. Observations from CXR-PRO evaluation: • All the 40 occurrences related to follow-up recommendations in the retrieved context documents were not included in the ﬁnal impression. • Out of 87 references to previous/prior reports, 80 references were successfully excluded in the impression. Some sample cases where the prior report references and follow-up actions were removed based on the instructions in the prompt are shown in Table 7 4.8. Modulate Report Generation Format One of