suggestive of early infection or developing pneumonia, depending on the clinical scenario. Left lower lobe consolidation due to pneumonia More conﬂuent basilar opac- ities may reﬂect dependent edema , but aspiration and infectious pneumonia should also be considered in the appropriate clinical setting.Retrocardiac opacity likely reﬂects basilar atelec- tasis , however infection or aspiration may produce a similar appearance , and short term followup radio- graphs may be helpful in this regard if warranted clinically.Right internal jugular line tip is in the right atrium and is needs to be pulled back to be indicate labral junction or above , 3. 5 cm have to be pulled back. Mild pulmonary edema with patchy opacities and bilateral eﬀusions, predominantly on the left. Compressive atelec- tasis and pneumonia are pos- sible. 15 CXR-RePaiR-Gen Table 7: Random examples of cases from CXR-PRO dataset where the RAG based genera- tions from GPT-4 eliminated the references to prior reports and follow-up recommendations based on instruction-based prompts. Context Records RAG Impression Diﬀerential appearance include interstitial lung disease with or without superim- posed developing pneumonia versusasis as- sociated with elevation of the right hemidi- aphragm.Patchy right basilar opacity may re- ﬂect compressive atelectasis however infec- tion cannot be excluded and followup radio- graphs after diuresis are recommended. Bibasilar hazy opacities , right greater than left , possibly due to atelectasis given low lung volumes , however underlying infection cannot be excluded in the appropriate clinical setting. Interstitial lung disease with possible devel- oping pneumonia or atelectasis, patchy right basilar opacity, and bibasilar hazy opacities, right greater than left. Infection cannot be excluded. It is unusual to have a unilateral left eﬀu- sion when the patient has previously had right sided eﬀusions and causes such as pericarditis, pancreatitis or a left up- per quandrant process should be consid- ered.