disease with possible devel- oping pneumonia or atelectasis, patchy right basilar opacity, and bibasilar hazy opacities, right greater than left. Infection cannot be excluded. It is unusual to have a unilateral left eﬀu- sion when the patient has previously had right sided eﬀusions and causes such as pericarditis, pancreatitis or a left up- per quandrant process should be consid- ered. Bilateral opaciﬁcations with silhouet- ting hemidiaphragms is consistent with layer- ing pleural eﬀusions and underlying compres- sive basilar atelectasis. Bilateral layering eﬀu- sions are present with patchy airspace opacity predominantly at the bases, left greater than right, which may represent patchy atelectasis. Unilateral left eﬀusion, bilateral opaciﬁcations with silhouetting hemidiaphragms, compres- sive basilar atelectasis, and patchy airspace opacity predominantly at the bases, left greater than right. 16 CXR-RePaiR-Gen Table 8: Structured Report Generation outputs from CXR-RepaiR-Gen using the few shot prompts in Table 2. We see that we can generate the impression summary and extract pathology, positional information, severity, size from the retrieved context in a structured format. Structured Report Output (JSON) { ”impression”:”The Swan-Ganz catheter tip is seen in the proximal right pulmonary artery. Appropriate position of Dobbhoﬀ line reaching stomach. Combination of severe bilateral lower lobe atelectasis and small to moderate pleural eﬀusions” ”ﬁndings”:[ { ”pathology”:”atelectasis”, ”positional”:”bilateral, base”, ”severity”:”severe”, ”size”:”” }, { ”pathology”:”pleural eﬀusions”, ”positional”:”bilateral”, ”severity”:””, ”size”:” small to moderate” } ] } 17 CXR-RePaiR-Gen 4.9. Hallucinations in Retrieval Augmented Generation We calculate the Semb scores between the generated report impression and the retrieved context from the sentence corpus with K=3 top K retrievals. We ﬁnd that the average similarity score is 0.8466 and around 87% of the test impressions have a Semb > 0.70 which is a good indication that the generations did not hallucinate. Table 9 presents a couple of records which had the lowest Semb