metrics BERTScore and Semb and at par for RadGraph F1. Italics denotes improvement over the baseline, while bold denotes the highest value obtained by our approach. Method Evaluation Metrics BERTScore Semb RadGraph F1 CXR-ReDonE 0.1102 0.3494 0.0626 CXR-RePaiR-Gen(text-davinci-003) 0.1970 0.3880 0.0617 4.6. Qualitative Analysis We ﬁnd the retrieval augmented generations-based impressions are very concise and less noisy when compared to the outputs from a pure retrieval-based strategy but still retaining all the relevant clinical entities. Refer Table 5 and Table 6 to see the concise impression summary created by the RAG based approach for examples from CXR-PRO and MS-CXR respectively. RAG also tries to avoid insigniﬁcant details in the retrieved corpus. In the last sample of Table 5, RAG based generations automatically exclude details like follow-up recommendations and gives a cleaner impression. Table 5: Examples from CXR-PRO dataset: Generated reports compared to the reference report and the baseline method CXR-RedonE. RAG based generations from CXR-RepaiR- Gen provides very concise impression summaries with ability to retain the important clinical entities. Outputs were generated at top K retrievals set to 3. Ground Truth CXR-ReDonE (K=3) CXR-RepaiR-Gen (K=3) (text-davinci-003) CXR-RepaiR-Gen (K=3) (gpt-4) 12 CXR-RePaiR-Gen Right hilar mass is as- sociated with atelec- tasis of right mid- dle lobe and there is a signiﬁcant adjacent lymphangitic carcino- matosis and consolida- tion. Right hilar mass is associated with at- electasis of right mid- dle lobe and there is a signiﬁcant adjacent lymphangitic carcino- matosis and consolida- tion. Although this may reﬂect dense consol- idative pneumonia, ﬁndings at least raise concern for the possi- bility of an underlying mass with associated pneumonitis as a possible alternative diagnosis. Regions of conﬂuent consol- idation in the right middle lobe and right suprahilar region, which could repre- sent superimposed infection or atelec- tasis. Right middle lobe consolidation in part