report as a response. 3.4. Structured Report Output We also experiment with the ability to modulate the report generation output with speciﬁ- cations on the desired report output format in the prompts as few shot examples. It can be interesting for the radiologist and downstream applications to generate certain attributes of interest from the radiology report apart from generating the free text radiology impression. These attributes of interest could be extracting the pathologies, severity related to pathol- ogy, severity, size, or position of ﬁndings etc. We instruct LLM to generate the radiology report in a structured output format containing the impression summary and attributes of interest seen in the retrieved context. We provide speciﬁcations on the pathology we are interested in and other attributes of interest along with few shot prompts as shown in the prompt design in Table 2 3.5. Experiments We conducted the retrieval augmented generation experiments using the OpenAI LLMs - text-davinci-003, gpt-3.5-turbo and gpt-4 based on the retrieved records using the CXR-ReDonE embeddings. We consider both report-based corpus and sentence-based cor- pus in our experiments. The retrieved records from the corpus forms the context in the prompt based on which the LLM generates the free text radiology impression. We experi- mented with zero shot settings for free text impression generation and few shot settings for the structured report generation. 7 CXR-RePaiR-Gen Table 1: Prompts for the OpenAI LLMs for Radiology Report Impression Generation from the retrieved reports as context text in the zero-shot setting. The text in italics in the prompts corresponds to the variables used in formatting the prompt. text-davinci-003 gpt-3.5-turbo/gpt-4 System Prompt gpt-3.5-turbo/gpt-4 User Prompt Generate an impression summary for the radiology report using the context given. Strictly follow the instructions below while generating the impressions. Instructions: • Impression summary should be based on