signal to adjust priority. Citations are classi- fied into eight categories: background, motivation, uses, extends, similarities, differences, compare/contrast, and future work [42]. While single evidence has multiple citations, the function of cita- tion can help identify the citations that align with the evidence. For example, for predicted evidence ‘Experiments show model A outperforms previous SOTA model B [citation 1,2,3]’, cited papers for ‘model A/B’ in the ‘introduction’ function are less check-worthy than the citation in the ‘compare/contrast’ function. By prioritising high-impact citations, retrieval costs can be significantly reduced. 2. Track the original timestamp of evidence. Once track- worthy citations are identified, the next step is to trace the original timestamp of cited evidence via direct and indirect citation tracking. Direct citation tracking can be applied if the publication date of the cited paper is straightforward to retrieve. However, some evidence is paraphrased or indirectly cited, requiring a deep tracking mech- anism to trace the citation path. Citation graph analysis [ 17, 96] can help map citation paths using directed graphs and applying search algorithms to identify the earliest relevant source. A recent study [118] found that reference errors – references do not include information to support statement – frequently appear ranging from 11% to 41% across domains. Addressing these errors introduces a sub-task for scientific fact-checking: verifying whether a cited reference truly supports the claim. To ensure feasibility, an early explorative study can assume that scientific literature generally adheres to citation conventions, preventing infinite citation loops in verification. In summary, to explore time-aware fact-checking for scientific literature, we propose two potential research directions: (1) Integrat- ing temporal information into retrieval and verification to handle outdated evidence and (2) Developing citation-based tracking meth- ods to identify the original source and timestamp of evidence. These directions provide a basis for studying the