feedback into evidence retrieval improves relevance assessment beyond binary labels, enhancing retrieval per- formance. Future research should focus on developing a benchmark IR system tailored for fact-checking, incorporating fine-grained relevance labels and verification-driven retrieval models. A scalable pre-training and fine-tuning approach has the potential to improve retrieval robustness and generalizability thereby producing more accurate and efficient fact-checking systems. 3 Imbalanced resources of scientific topics In existing general fact-checking datasets, such as FEVER which is based on Wikipedia, the distribution of gold evidence per claim is relatively even and sufficient. However, a significant imbalance of evidence is observed in scientific fact-checking. While the SciFact Table 3: Sufficient-evidence claim and none-evidence claim exam- ples in SciFact-Open. ‘Evidence’ is the number of evidence in SciFact- Open corpus and ‘Entities’ is the number of entities by searching bold-keyword in PubMed. Claim Evidence Entities Obesity is determined in part by genetic factors. 24 499k LRBA controls CTLA - 4 expression. 0 0.27k corpus (~5K documents) maintains a relatively balanced number of evidence documents per claim, this balance was disrupted when the dataset was expanded to create SciFact-Open (~500K documents). In this larger corpus, the majority of claims have none or only one piece of supporting evidence while others have over. Claims related to less-researched topics are generally associated with fewer scientific publications, as illustrated by the examples in Table 3. However, most fact-checking systems do not explicitly account for evidence imbalance. A common approach is to use a fixed re- trieval cut-off (i.e., selecting a predefined number of top-ranked documents for verification). One of the most inefficient approaches is setting the cut-off equal to the maximum number of evidence per claim in the dataset, ensuring that all possible evidence is re- trieved. This heuristic has not previously caused major issues since general fact-checking datasets contain