simple and small-scale sources [16, 49, 62, 72, 75, 100, 101, 104]. For example, SciFact-Open [101], the largest available dataset for scientific fact-checking, contains 500,000 documents – substantially smaller than PubMed, which con- tains over 37 million biomedical publications. In addition, SciFact- Open consists only of abstracts, rather than full-text papers, thereby excluding critical structural and citation information, ignoring long- range context and scientific expression conveyed through tables and figures. These design simplifications may hinder the applicabil- ity of current approaches in real-world settings, where scientific evidence is embedded in long and structurally complex documents with multimodal content. Fact-checking is a knowledge-intensive task, where the verifica- tion process relies on sourcing evidence from a reliable upstream Information Retrieval (IR) system. Emerging findings indicate the value of effective retrieval in improving fact-checking systems. For example, introducing even a small amount of noise into evi- dence can significantly degrade fact-checking performance [ 76]. Recent Retrieval-Augmented-Generation (RAG) techniques have been widely used for fact-checking [28, 47, 63, 70, 80, 84, 94], where retrieval models are fine-tuned to identify high-quality evidence for claim verification. These observations underscore the critical role of robust evidence retrieval, as an ideal IR system for fact- checking should rank all relevant evidence at the top while filtering out non-evidential noise. Ensuring retrieval robustness is crucial to maintaining sufficient yet relevant evidence, which is essential for improving scientific fact-checking accuracy. A major trend in fact-checking research is to consider realistic set- tings that employ rich, diverse and timely evidence sources, as seen in FEVER (using Wikipedia) [90] and AVeriTeC (using web-wide resources) [78]. In document level evidence retrieval, current arXiv:2506.20844v2 [cs.IR] 29 Jun 2025 ICTIR ’25, July 18, 2025, Padua, Italy Xingyu Deng, Xi Wang, Mark Stevenson general fact-checking systems over-rely on commercial search APIs, which do not consider the