in isolation. Effective alignment demands progress in scientific document understanding [24, 60], visual structure parsing [ 32], and domain-specific retrieval [ 71]. Integrating these efforts will support full-document, multimodal verification, where structured evidence is faithfully grounded in its textual context. 7 Credibility of scientific literature Existing evidence retrieval models often favour high-ranking doc- uments based on semantic relevance, often overlooking scientific rigour [98]. As a result, low-quality documents may be retrieved as evidence, undermining the credibility of scientific fact-checking. The reliability of a claim verification process is inherently tied to The Next Phase of Scientific Fact-Checking: Advanced Evidence Retrieval from Complex Structured Academic Papers ICTIR ’25, July 18, 2025, Padua, Italy the quality of the supporting literature, making evidence credibility a crucial factor in scientific fact-checking. In the domain of scientific literature, credibility assessment is influenced by multiple factors, including peer-review status, which ensures methodological scrutiny, citation impact which indicates how influential a study is within its field, and experimental rigour, reflecting the robustness of a study’s methodology. However, the proliferation of non-peer-reviewed manuscripts and publications from venues with varying editorial standards, particularly in open- access repositories, poses a growing challenge. Such sources may lack the rigorous methodological scrutiny necessary to ensure re- liable scientific conclusions. Therefore, incorporating additional quality indicators is essential for enhancing the robustness of sci- entific fact-checking. RD.7. Extending Indicators of Evidence Quality Evaluating scientific literature quality extends beyond content reliability, and should consider factors including venue reputa- tion, methodological rigour, and experimental transparency. High- impact journals and prestigious conferences generally enforce strin- gent peer-review standards, contributing to the credibility of pub- lished research. Similarly, the expertise and prior contributions of an author, particularly in reputable venues, can provide further insight into the credibility of a study. In addition to traditional metadata, emerging indicators such as