gold evidence for the claim in Table 2. We prompted GPT-4o to search for supporting/refuting evidence and determine whether each piece of evidence was paraphrased/summarised from a citation or is self-contained. Figure 2: Evidence sources in scientific literature. The result shown in Figure 2 reveals, as expected, that cited evidence is predominantly located in the introduction, while self- contained evidence is more common in the results and conclusion sections. While we observed a few inaccurate outcomes (e.g., one ‘From Cited’ evidence appearing in ‘Abstract’ is misjudged), the overall distribution remains discernible and interpretable. In ad- dition, we also observed that sentences in scientific literature fre- quently contain multiple citations, making it costly to manually extract the original timestamp of cited evidence. To address this challenge, we propose a two-step approach: 1. Identify track-worthy citations.Not all citations are equally important for fact verification. Track-worthy citations should in- clude: conclusive evidence directly influences claim verification and The Next Phase of Scientific Fact-Checking: Advanced Evidence Retrieval from Complex Structured Academic Papers ICTIR ’25, July 18, 2025, Padua, Italy plausible evidence that may impact claim assessment [108]. Since checking every cited document is expensive, an initial filtering step is required. A potential solution is to rank citations based on their relevance and function. Citation recommendation [30, 34] is a similar task to identify relevant publications for a given statement using retrieval models. Beyond relevance, the function of citation can be referred to as a signal to adjust priority. Citations are classi- fied into eight categories: background, motivation, uses, extends, similarities, differences, compare/contrast, and future work [42]. While single evidence has multiple citations, the function of cita- tion can help identify the citations that align with the evidence. For example, for predicted evidence ‘Experiments show model A outperforms previous SOTA model B [citation 1,2,3]’, cited