and approximately 2 in SciFact-Open. To illustrate this improvement, we conducted a case study examining how different retrieval methods ranked specific evidence documents (Table 2). Compared to monoT5-3B, +Verifi- cation successfully elevated the ranks of E2, E3 and E5, retrieving three additional pieces of evidence within the top 5 results. Notably, E5, ranked 302nd by monoT5-3B, was effectively rescued by adding verification feedback in +Verification, demonstrating the value of integrating verification-informed retrieval signals. These findings highlight a promising research direction: shift- ing from semantic-only retrieval towards evidence-aware retrieval, where retrieval models explicitly account for evidential value. Our results suggest that leveraging well-performing verification models can help refine retrieval systems by distinguishing between purely ICTIR ’25, July 18, 2025, Padua, Italy Xingyu Deng, Xi Wang, Mark Stevenson semantic relevance and plausible evidential relevance among unan- notated documents. Furthermore, to continually improve evidence- aware retrieval, we propose the development of tailored IR systems capable of identifying evidential information, thereby enhancing evidence retrieval for scientific fact-checking. RD.1. Benchmark tailored IR system for fact-checking The preliminary study presented in this work outlined a framework to enhance evidence retrieval beyond only semantic relevance. To overcome the limitations of existing IR systems in scientific fact- checking scenarios, it is imperative to develop specialised IR sys- tems capable of handling the specific challenges of verification tasks. However, training an IR system on a single fact-checking dataset risks poor generalizability and potential overfitting, particularly due to data imbalance, a common issue in the relatively small datasets characteristic of scientific fact-checking [ 97, 116]. Furthermore, poor verification performance deteriorates retrieval accuracy, cre- ating a vicious feedback loop that further degrades overall system effectiveness. A multi-pronged strategy could mitigate these chal- lenges by pooling verification signals from various high-performing verifier models, leveraging large-scale datasets such as FEVER [90] to improve