time-sensitive retrieval mechanism should prioritise recent publications to en- sure that fact-checking systems incorporate the most up-to-date methodologies and factual updates. This is especially crucial in fields like healthcare, where relying on outdated information could lead to misleading conclusions or incorrect decisions. For example, during a rapidly evolving pandemic, a medical treatment initially considered effective might later be deemed unreliable. This sec- tion discusses the challenges and opportunities of integrating the evidence timestamp into scientific fact-checking. Scientific fact-checking aims to find evidential information in the literature to verify a claim. Intuitively, considering outdated literature negatively affects verification. Research in healthcare question answering (QA) has demonstrated that time-aware re- trieval improves system performance [99], as shown in Table 5. The F1 score of the healthcare QA system improves as the publication year of evidence documents becomes more recent. By extension, scientific fact-checking on a large-scale corpus may also suffer from incorporating outdated evidence. These findings highlight the need for time-aware filtering in scientific fact-checking systems to en- hance reliability. Fact-checking datasets could explicitly incorporate timestamps as metadata to facilitate research into temporal rele- vance in retrieval and verification. A general fact-checking study [9] collected the ‘timestamp of last update’ of claims and evidential documents, allowing later research [ 8] to explore the impact of temporal data on verification. This study found that a time-aware system achieved a 15% improvement in macro F1 score, underscor- ing the importance of temporal information. However, this work was limited by: (1) focusing on verification only , where evidence documents had already been retrieved in a separate initial step, without ensuring that retrieval prioritised high-quality and tem- porally relevant evidence, and (2) the use of fragmented evidence – ICTIR ’25, July 18, 2025, Padua, Italy Xingyu Deng, Xi Wang, Mark Stevenson the general fact-checking datasets usually