this work was limited by: (1) focusing on verification only , where evidence documents had already been retrieved in a separate initial step, without ensuring that retrieval prioritised high-quality and tem- porally relevant evidence, and (2) the use of fragmented evidence – ICTIR ’25, July 18, 2025, Padua, Italy Xingyu Deng, Xi Wang, Mark Stevenson the general fact-checking datasets usually only contain small snip- pets of web documents, omitting many important time expressions present in full texts. Given these findings, it is essential to develop a fact-checking system that explicitly incorporates temporal awareness across both retrieval and verification stages to meet real-world applications. RD.3. Time-A ware Retrieval and Verification Traditional fact-checking approaches often handle conflicting evi- dence for a single claim by assigning neutral veracity labels, such as “mixture, " “unproven, " or “not enough information" [37, 97]. However, conflicting evidence often arises due to outdated stud- ies included in the retrieval process, which introduces noise and adversely affects prediction accuracy [99]. This issue has been ob- served in healthcare QA systems, where outdated evidence degrades performance [99]. To address this issue, we propose a time-aware approach that incorporates temporal information into both retrieval and verification stages: 1.Retrieval Stage: Outdated evidence should be filtered or de- prioritised during retrieval to ensure that the retrieved evidence set is temporally aligned with the latest scientific findings. 2.Verification Stage: After filtering by time-aware retrieval, all retrieved evidence should be considered but with differentiated weighting based on temporal relevance. Recent evidence should be prioritised through higher weights, while older evidence should serve as supplementary or contextual information rather than pri- mary evidence. By processing outdated evidence differently across retrieval and verification components, this direction explores how temporal in- formation can reduce noise and improve the reliability of scientific fact-checking systems. 4.2 Indirect evidence through