from annotated gold evidence [40, 68, 117, 119, 120]. Although graded relevance has been extensively explored in general IR, current evidence retrieval systems for fact-checking often oversimplify relevance as binary, failing to differentiate between fully non-evidential and partially relevant evidence. This coarse-grained labelling scheme fails to differentiate between completely non-evidential documents and partially relevant (plausible) evidence. Negative examples and ran- domly retrieved examples are equally treated as 0, despite exhibiting varying degrees of evidential support. We argue that evidence re- trieval should distinguish between non-evidential information and plausible evidence, enhancing the model’s ability to identify previ- ously unobserved but potentially useful evidence within large-scale corpora. Developing an IR system that can effectively differentiate be- tween evidential and non-evidential information requires access to fine-grained relevance labels during training. However, manu- ally constructing negative samples is both complex and resource- intensive due to the vast number of unlabelled documents and sentences that lack explicit pairing with given claims. Furthermore, assessing the degree of evidential support for a claim within unla- belled documents is inherently challenging. To validate the impact of fine-grained evidential relevance, beyond semantic relevance, we carry out preliminary experiments which explore the use of down- stream verification feedback to capture different levels of evidential values. Experiment Overview. The experiment investigates whether combining verification feedback with semantic relevance improves the performance of document evidence retrieval. Figure 1 presents the pipeline, where probabilities from downstream verification serve as feedback. Specifically, we integrate two components: 1) the semantic relevance score, computed using an off-the-shelf reranker model, and (2) the verification success feedback score, derived from a fine-tuned verifier model, indicating the degree to which a docu- ment is evidential for a given claim. The Next Phase of Scientific Fact-Checking: Advanced Evidence Retrieval from Complex Structured Academic Papers ICTIR ’25, July 18, 2025, Padua,