The Next Phase of Scientific Fact-Checking: Advanced Evidence Retrieval from Complex Structured Academic Papers Xingyu Deng xdeng37@sheffield.ac.uk University of Sheffield Sheffield, UK Xi Wang xi.wang@sheffield.ac.uk University of Sheffield Sheffield, UK Mark Stevenson mark.stevenson@sheffield.ac.uk University of Sheffield Sheffield, UK Abstract Scientific fact-checking aims to determine the veracity of scien- tific claims by retrieving and analysing evidence from research literature. The problem is inherently more complex than general fact-checking since it must accommodate the evolving nature of scientific knowledge, the structural complexity of academic litera- ture and the challenges posed by long-form, multimodal scientific expression. However, existing approaches focus on simplified ver- sions of the problem based on small-scale datasets consisting of abstracts rather than full papers, thereby avoiding the distinct chal- lenges associated with processing complete documents. This paper examines the limitations of current scientific fact-checking systems and reveals the many potential features and resources that could be exploited to advance their performance. It identifies key research challenges within evidence retrieval, including (1) evidence-driven retrieval that addresses semantic limitations and topic imbalance (2) time-aware evidence retrieval with citation tracking to mit- igate outdated information, (3) structured document parsing to leverage long-range context, (4) handling complex scientific expres- sions, including tables, figures, and domain-specific terminology and (5) assessing the credibility of scientific literature. Preliminary experiments were conducted to substantiate these challenges and identify potential solutions. This perspective paper aims to advance scientific fact-checking with a specialised IR system tailored for real-world applications. CCS Concepts •Information systems → Specialized information retrieval. Keywords Evidence retrieval, Scientific fact-checking ACM Reference Format: Xingyu Deng, Xi Wang, and Mark Stevenson. 2025. The Next Phase of Scien- tific Fact-Checking: Advanced Evidence Retrieval from Complex Structured Academic Papers. In Proceedings of the 2025 International ACM SIGIR Con- ference on Innovative Concepts and Theories in Information Retrieval (ICTIR) (ICTIR ’25),