presents a comprehensive examination of the challenges associated with evidence retrieval in scientific fact- checking, highlighting challenges that are not typically faced within general fact-checking, leading to the need for specialised retrieval and verification strategies. We advocate for proactive re- search efforts to develop scalable methodologies while addressing the limitations of current datasets. We structure our discussion into two parts following a typical fact-checking pipeline: Sections 2–3 explore document-level evidence retrieval while Sections 4–8 ex- plore within-document evidence retrieval in scientific publication for scientific fact-checking. Each of the following sections identi- fies a research challenge followed by a tentative and illustrative research direction (RD). 2 Beyond Semantics Evidence retrieval for fact checking is closely related to traditional document retrieval techniques, which typically focus on retrieving documents that are semantically similar to a query or contain match- ing keywords. While this approach is effective in many scenarios, it often fails to address the ultimate objective of fact-checking – successful claim verification. Evidence retrieval that relies solely on semantic similarity may prioritise irrelevant or low-context infor- mation, introducing noise into the subsequent verification process. Recent IR studies [67, 92] show that semantic relevance alone may not ensure utility in knowledge-intensive NLP tasks under the RAG framework, suggesting the importance of utility-aware retrieval strategies. To improve the verification utility of evidence retrieval systems, techniques such as fine-tuning, joint optimisation, and learning from verification feedback have been developed. These approaches leverage relevance labels derived from annotated gold evidence [40, 68, 117, 119, 120]. Although graded relevance has been extensively explored in general IR, current evidence retrieval systems for fact-checking often oversimplify relevance as binary, failing to differentiate between fully non-evidential and partially relevant evidence. This coarse-grained labelling scheme fails to differentiate between completely non-evidential documents and partially relevant (plausible) evidence. Negative examples and ran-