verification. In contrast, scientific documents exhibit higher document-level consistency of verdict, commonly one paper hav- ing a sole standpoint to a given question, making document-level processing necessary for scientific fact-checking [50, 102, 119]. LLMs have recently demonstrated growing capability to process long contexts. However, it remains challenging to fact-check an entire full-text document in a single pass [105]. LLMs are prone to hallucinating content that is not grounded in the provided docu- ments [2, 20, 23, 88] and are often susceptible to distraction from irrelevant context [82]. Their reasoning capabilities also degrade as text length increases [46]. A potential solution is context distil- lation, as used in retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), to filter high-quality context and mitigate hallucination, which improves the performance of downstream QA tasks [106]. However, unlike the QA task, fact-checking requires explicit retrieval of explicit. Fil- tering context may remove crucial supporting evidence, leading to incomplete verification. Moreover, much of the historical scientific literature exists in PDF format. Although recent multimodal LLMs are capable of consuming PDFs and conducting reasoning tasks, their capabilities are still limited to surface-level understanding. For example, they frequently fail to capture cross-page content and complex layout structures [60, 87, 95]. By prompting GPT-4o to locate evidence in PDF literature with the results presented in Section 4.2, we observed that it mislocated evidence in incorrect sections or non-existent sections. These limitations indicate that ex- isting LLMs are not capable of supporting end-to-end fact-checking for long-context scientific literature – not only for raw PDFs but also for plain-text documents. In addition to their length, scientific papers follow a structured format that introduces additional challenges for verification. Back- ground and introduction sections often cite prior work, which may conflict with conclusions drawn later, while discussion sec- tions highlight limitations that can cast doubt on earlier findings.