of developing tailored document retrieval systems specifically designed for scientific fact-checking, as effective retrieval is a prerequisite for accurate claim verification. Beyond document-level evidence retrieval, within-document evidence retrieval is also essential for processing complex sci- entific literature. Scientific papers, unlike general fact-checking documents, are long, structured, domain-specific and involve addi- tional metadata. As scientific fact-checking evolves from abstract- based to full-paper retrieval, retrieval models must account for metadata (e.g., publish date, citations) and complex structured data format (e.g., charts, tables, figures). This necessitates the adaptation of verification models such as SciBERT [ 11] for domain-specific terminologies [100], Longformer [ 12] for long-range dependen- cies [102] and TAPAS [ 38] for tabular data verification [ 3]. Sci- entific expressions in academic papers are highly structured and contextually interdependent, where textual content, tabular data, and figures mutually reinforce the conveyed information. How- ever, existing scientific fact-checking systems primarily operate at the abstract level, adopting methodologies similar to general fact-checking [49, 50, 68, 72, 75, 97, 100, 102, 111, 119], albeit incor- porating domain-specific models such as BioSentVec [21] and SciB- ERT [11]. The development of public full-paper datasets aligns with the requirement of real-world scientific fact-checking systems for effective verification. This highlights the urgent need for retrieval and verification methodologies that can leverage entire scientific documents. Accordingly, within-document evidence retrieval and its integration into verification pipelines should be explored to fully unlock the potential of scientific literature for fact-checking. This perspective paper presents a comprehensive examination of the challenges associated with evidence retrieval in scientific fact- checking, highlighting challenges that are not typically faced within general fact-checking, leading to the need for specialised retrieval and verification strategies. We advocate for proactive re- search efforts to develop scalable methodologies while addressing the limitations of current datasets. We structure our discussion into two parts