temporal tracking. (2) Citation tracing for indirect evidence : Mandatory cita- tion rules in academic publications facilitate source tracing, even when statements are referenced indirectly. (3) Structured nature of academic papers : provides an indication of the origin of state- ments. For example, evidence in the background section typically references prior studies, whereas those in the abstract or results sections represent findings from the current publication. Given these inherent advantages, incorporating timestamps as metadata offers a promising research direction for full-paper-based scien- tific fact-checking. Exploring the temporal dynamics of claims and evidence should further enhance retrieval accuracy. Additionally, ci- tation tracking to trace the original source of paraphrased evidence, ensuring the first-published timestamp is accurately recorded. Citation-based tracking provides a promising approach to esti- mating evidence timestamps. However, the widespread presence of multiple citations in scientific literature makes it difficult to iden- tify which references should be tracked, increasing computational costs and reducing efficiency. Moreover, indirect citations and para- phrased references, particularly in introductory sections, further obscure the retrieval of the first-published source. To address these issues, we propose the following research direction to develop a more effective approach for citation tracking and timestamp attri- bution. RD.4. Citation-Based Evidence Tracking Intuitively, self-contained evidence refers to information directly presented in the body of the current paper, while cited evidence is derived from external sources referenced by the paper. To explore this distinction, we analysed 22 accessible full papers out of 24 gold evidence for the claim in Table 2. We prompted GPT-4o to search for supporting/refuting evidence and determine whether each piece of evidence was paraphrased/summarised from a citation or is self-contained. Figure 2: Evidence sources in scientific literature. The result shown in Figure 2 reveals, as expected, that cited evidence is predominantly located in the introduction, while self- contained evidence