DS@GT at TREC TOT 2025: Bridging Vague Recollection with Fusion Retrieval and Learned Reranking Wenxin Zhou Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia, USA wzhou77@gatech.edu Ritesh Mehta Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia, USA rmehta307@gatech.edu Anthony Miyaguchi Georgia Institute of Technology Atlanta, Georgia, USA acmiyaguchi@gatech.edu Abstract We develop a two-stage retrieval system that combines multiple complementary retrieval methods with a learned reranker and LLM- based reranking, to address the TREC Tip-of-the-Tongue (ToT) task. In the first stage, we employ hybrid retrieval that merges LLM-based retrieval, sparse (BM25), and dense (BGE-M3) retrieval methods. We also introduce topic-aware multi-index dense retrieval that partitions the Wikipedia corpus into 24 topical domains. In the second stage, we evaluate both a trained LambdaMART reranker and LLM-based reranking. To support model training, we generate 5000 synthetic ToT queries using LLMs. Our best system achieves recall of 0.66 and NDCG@1000 of 0.41 on the test set by combining hybrid retrieval with Gemini-2.5-flash reranking, demonstrating the effectiveness of fusion retrieval. Keywords Tip-of-the-tongue search, known-item retrieval, hybrid retrieval, LLM reranking, learning to rank 1 Introduction The TREC Tip-of-the-Tongue (ToT) track addresses the known-item search problem where a user has previously encountered an item, such as a movie, landmark, or celebrity, but cannot recall a specific identifier like a title or name to easily find it. The user’s query is often a verbose, natural language description of the item they are trying to find. These descriptions are complex, sometimes con- taining multi-hop reasoning, expressions of uncertainty, and even false memories, which makes it difficult for traditional keyword- based search systems to handle effectively. The primary task of the ToT track is to develop systems that can successfully identify the "known-item" from these elaborate and often imprecise descriptions across various domains. In our paper, we address the ToT challenge using two-stage re-