10%, respectively. 2.4 First-Stage Retrieval 2.4.1 LLM Retrieval.We use LLMs as one of the methods for first- stage retrieval. In the prompt, we ask the LLM to return a single or up to 20 Wikipedia article titles that match the tip-of-the-tongue query, with relevance scores from 1-5. We request the LLM to return results in JSON format to make extracting article names from the response easier. The full prompt can be found in Appendix C. Next, we look up the Wikipedia title in the corpus using code adapted from the 2024 ToT baseline solution. First, we check for exact title name matches. Then, we perform inexact name matching, which matches using redirect or alias names. Finally, if both fail, we remove the parenthetical portion of the title and perform exact and inexact name matching with the shortened title. 2.4.2 Topic-A ware Multi-Index Dense Retrieval.In this approach, we organized the Wikipedia corpus into 24 topical domains us- ing ModernBERT-web-topics classification, with quality filtering to remove list articles, disambiguation pages, and content lacking substantive explanatory content. For each topic, we construct sepa- rate FAISS indexes using BGE-M3 embeddings (1024-dimensional), processing long articles with overlapping chunking and averaging chunk embeddings to produce L2-normalized vectors for efficient cosine similarity search. To handle the incomplete and uncertain nature of tip-of-the-tongue queries, we generate multiple relaxed query variants using Llama 3.1-8B-Instruct with carefully designed prompts that generalize queries while preserving core semantics. For queries where Llama produced unsatisfactory results, we used Gemini’s chat interface to manually generate high-quality vari- ants following the same generalization principles. This complete pipeline is illustrated in Figure 2. The retrieval pipeline classifies each query variant to one of the 24 topics using ModernBERT-web-topics, then encodes it with BGE-M3 and searches only the corresponding topic-specific FAISS index for the top-1000 results per