challenges, it is essential to bridge the semantic gap between retrievers and LLMs. As previously mentioned, retrievers can provide high-quality semantic representations that can be beneficial for catching nuanced differences among documents (Zhao et al., 2022). Thus, our in- tuition is to exploit these semantic representations as additional knowledge, empower LLMs to gain a deeper comprehension of the retrieved documents, and thereby generate more accurate responses. This paper proposes a cost-effective enhanced RAG framework to incorporate Retrieval informa- tion into Retrieval Argumented Generation (named R2AG), enhancing LLMs’ perception of the key information among retrieved documents. Specif- ically, R2AG adopts an input processing pipeline that transforms semantic representations from a retriever into unified retrieval features. Then, a trainable R 2-Former is employed to capture es- sential retrieval information. As shown in Fig- ure 1, R 2-Former is a pluggable and lightweight model placed between the retriever and the LLM. Finally, through a retrieval-aware prompting strat- egy, the LLM receives additional embeddings that contain retrieval information. This strategy aligns the knowledge from retrievers with LLMs without changing the content and order of retrieved docu- ments, thereby relieving information loss. R 2AG offers the flexibility to fine-tune R2-Former alone or both with LLMs. Thus, in R 2AG framework, both retrievers and LLMs can be frozen to save computational costs, making R 2AG suitable for scenarios with limited resources. Overall, our con- tributions are summarized as follows: • We propose R2AG, an enhanced RAG frame- work, to incorporate retrieval information into retrieval augmented generation. Notably, R2AG is compatible with low-source scenar- ios where retrievers and LLMs are frozen. • We design a lightweight model, R 2-Former, to bridge the semantic gap between retrievers and LLMs. R2-Former can be seamlessly in- tegrated into existing RAG frameworks using open-source LLMs. • We introduce a retrieval-aware prompting