both the shadow model and generator to evaluate the ASR, with ColBERT as the retriever model. For semantic similarity, we used the all-MiniLM-L6-v2 model to compute embeddings. As shown in Table 5, few-shot prompting achieves higher ASR and retrieval recall compared to the other two methods. The third generation strategy performed the worst across all three metrics. Consequently, we adopt the second method (few-shot prompting) for all experiments to prompt GPT-4o. C Understanding Llama Behavior To better understand the performance drop in our attack for the Llama model, we examine the MIA score under two scenarios: https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2 15 Attack Query Target Document This paper serves as a companion or extension to the “Inside PageRank" paper by Bianchini et al. [19]. It is a comprehensive survey of all issues associated with PageRank, covering the basic PageRank model, available and recommended solution methods, storage issues, existence, uniqueness, and convergence properties, possible alterations to the basic model, suggested alternatives to the traditional solution methods, sensitivity and conditioning, and finally the updating problem. We introduce a few new results, provide an extensive reference list, and speculate about exciting areas of future research. RAG-MIA[2] Does this:\n“This paper serves as a companion or extension to the “Inside PageRank" paper by Bianchini et al. [19]. It is a comprehensive survey of all issues associated with PageRank, covering the basic PageRank model, available and recommended solution methods, storage issues, existence, uniqueness, and convergence properties, possible alterations to the basic model, suggested alternatives to the traditional solution methods, sensitivity and conditioning, and finally the updating problem. We introduce a few new results, provide an extensive reference list, and speculate about exciting areas of future research.\n" appear in the context? Answer with Yes or No S2-MIA [26] Given the [Query]: “This paper serves as a companion or extension to the