mised. The mere confirmation that a particular document is part of the retrieval corpus can reveal that an individual engaged with a system, received a specific service, or ap- pears in a sensitive internal context. Such inferences may already constitute privacy violations under data protection regulations like GDPR, particularly when tied to specific individuals. • Factual Knowledge Sources: Internal documentation such as policy guidelines, compliance manuals, proprietary re- search summaries, or strategic planning documents often contain overlapping factual content. While these documents may be more difficult to target directly, a successful mem- bership inference can still reveal valuable information. For example, confirming that a particular regulatory checklist or internal strategy document is part of the RAG knowledge base may expose ongoing initiatives, compliance focus ar- eas, or future product directions—information that can be strategically sensitive even in the absence of direct content leakage. MIAs are therefore relevant not only from a privacy or IP exposure standpoint, but also for auditing and compliance purposes. Because RAG systems ingest documents at deployment time, the ability to determine document membership enables verification of whether sensitive, protected, or unlicensed content was indexed. This can assist with GDPR audits or copyright enforcement. At the same time, the same capability can be exploited as a preliminary step in more sophisticated data extraction attacks [5]. 3 Successful membership inference in a RAG system is not straight- forward to achieve. The adversary must first ensure that the target document 𝑑∗, if present, is consistently retrieved by the RAG system during its operation. Additionally, the adversary must craft queries in a manner that not only distinguishes the target document from other potentially related documents in D but also bypasses any intermediate processes employed by the RAG system (as discussed in Section 4) that may limit inference success. Adversary’s Capabilities.We