search on Intel Sapphire Rapids CPUs. This higher search per- formance translates to 1.7–26.3× lower end-to-end inference time for representative RAG applications. IKS is inherently a memory expander; its internal DRAM can be disaggregated and used for other applications running on the server to pre- vent DRAM – which is the most expensive component in today’s servers – from being stranded. CCS Concepts: •Computer systems organization → Par- allel architectures; Heterogeneous (hybrid) systems; • Hardware → Hardware accelerators; •Information sys- tems → Database design and models. Keywords: database acceleration, dense retrieval, retrieval- augmented generation (RAG) InputRetrieval ModelGenerative Model OutputKitems Knowledgesource Fig. 1. Overview of the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pipeline. 1 Introduction State-of-the-art natural language processing systems heavily rely on large language models (LLMs)–deep Transformer net- works [93] with hundreds of millions of parameters. There is much evidence that information presented in the LLM train- ing corpora is “memorized” in the LLM parameters, forming a parametric knowledge base that the model depends on for generating responses. A major challenge with parametric knowledge is its static nature; it cannot be updated unless the model undergoes retraining or fine-tuning, which is an ex- tremely costly process. This creates a critical issue, especially when it comes to non-stationary domains where fresh content is constantly being produced [108]. Besides, previous stud- ies have indicated that LLMs exhibit limited memorization for less frequent entities [29], are susceptible to hallucina- tions [83], and may experience temporal degradation [31]. To overcome the challenges presented by LLMs, a potential solution is to enhance them with non-parametric knowledge, where the LLM is augmented with information retrieved from a knowledge source (e.g., text documents). These approaches have recently gained considerable attention in the machine learning communities [22; 26; 41; 49; 58; 73; 83], and have played key roles in some recent