these words [22]. While this approach provides fine grained features, the feature space can be too vast and pose challenges in increasing recall. To address this issue, other systems use topic detection using unsupervised learning approaches such as LDA [23]. Such unsupervised techniques are complex to tune and are not guaranteed to give humanly intuitive topics. While expert annotation (e.g. in education [24]) has been one of the approaches to obtain humanly intuitive, representative topics from textual content, this approach is not scalable.Wikification, a more recent approach, looks promising towards automatically extracting explainable concepts from text. Wikification identifies Wikipedia concepts present in a document by connecting natural text to Wikipedia articles via entity linking [25]. In this work, we argue for the usefulness of Wikification in creating precise, humanly intuitive concept representations at scale. Our experiments also demonstrate how Wikipedia concepts can be used to i) disambiguate query keyword and ii) at the absence of them, create entity features that can find relevant documents for users proactively. 3. Wikipedia to Support Proactive Search-based Systems Through this work, we aim to explore how the knowledge contained in Wikipedia can be utilised to better a proactive search-based system. In order to tread towards this direction, we aim to answer multiple research questions in this work as a promising step. We hypothesise that associating Wikipedia concepts to a natural language based IR system can improve a proactive IR system by i) bettering disambiguation of the meaning of user queries, ii) by exploiting the semantic meaning of document words while being less sensitive to noisy words in the document transcripts and iii) by creating opportunities for the system to understand the learner interactions more meaningfully. RQ1 Do Wikipedia concepts carry a signal that indicates relevance of documents to queries? RQ2 Can Wikipedia annotations improve