in abundance, it can often be noisy (e.g. extracted through Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), PDF text extraction etc.), leading to state-of-the-art neural models being highly sensitive to the noise producing sub-optimal results [5]. This demands denoising steps to refine both query and document representation. In this paper, we argue that Wikipedia, an openly available encyclopedia, can be a humanly intuitive knowledge base [ 6] that has the potential to provide the world view many noisy information Retrieval systems need. In the midst of noisy text, we point out that it can help refine user queries (both explicit and implicit) while compiling large result sets into structured narratives that human users can navigate with optimal effort. We use a dataset with noisy text where the query description is used as a proxy of the user’s context used in a proactive information retrieval system. We demonstrate that positive results can be obtained in comparison to relevant baselines when ranking documents. PASIR’22: First Workshop on Proactive and Agent-Supported Information Retrieval at CIKM 2022, October 21, 2022, Atlanta, GA /envelope-opentabish.ahmed.21@ucl.ac.uk (T. Ahmed) © 2022 Copyright for this paper by its authors. Use permitted under Creative Commons License Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0). CEUR Workshop Proceedings http://ceur-ws.org ISSN 1613-0073 CEUR Workshop Proceedings (CEUR-WS.org) arXiv:2210.09877v1 [cs.IR] 18 Oct 2022 2. Related Work Retrieving relevant documents to a personal information need involves mining textual features that can be used to match them to user queries. While previous works have explored Wikipedia- based concept modelling for query expansion [7, 8] exclusively, our work deviates from these works as we focus on i) simultaneously adding Wiki features to the documents, ii) ranking documents with noisy texts and iii) using the query description (proxy for context extracted from user history) for query disambiguation. Latest neural ranking models dominate the