integrating an external retrieval system that pro- vides contextually relevant and grounded evidence in real time, RAG improves both the accuracy and reliability of knowledge-intensive tasks. A critical component of RAG systems is the re- trieval and reranking module, as the quality of the †These authors contributed equally to this work. retrieved information directly influences the accu- racy and relevance of the generated answers (Shi et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2024a,b; Wadhwa et al., 2024; Hong et al., 2024; Feng et al., 2024). Numer- ous studies have explored optimizing the effective integration of LLMs and retrieval modules. Asai et al. (2023); Jeong et al. (2024) focus on dynam- ically determining the necessity of retrieval and when to stop it. Wang et al. (2023); Shao et al. (2023) involve alternating between retrieval and generation, enriching contextual references through multiple retrieval iterations. Trivedi et al. (2023); Sarthi et al. (2024) iteratively decompose and re- fine complex questions, addressing them through retrieval and generation. However, these multi-step approaches require significantly more resources, potentially limiting their feasibility for real-world applications. Therefore, many existing RAG sys- tems utilize conventional reranking modules with a straightforward top-k selection strategy, originally developed and optimized for search applications. We argue that RAG systems have distinct infor- mation demands that set them apart from traditional search engines. While traditional search engines rank individual results by relevance, RAG systems need a curated set of passages to generate accurate answers, requiring not only relevance but also diver- sity, completeness, and the comprehensiveness of retrieved passages. For example, when identifying a company based on a mix of business strategies, controversies and product claims, a RAG system must retrieve a diverse range of sources covering all these aspects. If the system retrieves only pas- sages discussing product claims but not those cov- ering