not only relevance but also diver- sity, completeness, and the comprehensiveness of retrieved passages. For example, when identifying a company based on a mix of business strategies, controversies and product claims, a RAG system must retrieve a diverse range of sources covering all these aspects. If the system retrieves only pas- sages discussing product claims but not those cov- ering controversies, business strategies, and other relevant factors, it may produce an incomplete or inaccurate response. To address these challenges, we propose a set- wise passage selection approach that optimizes the quality of the passage set as a whole, rather than treating retrieval as an independent ranking task. arXiv:2507.06838v2 [cs.CL] 10 Jul 2025 Figure 1: Overview of our SET SELECTION approach for RAG system, compared to passage reranking methods: (a) Direct Reranking, (b) Reranking with CoT, and (c) Our SET SELECTION . (a) lacks explicit reasoning, making it unclear whether multiple aspects are considered. (b) incorporates a reasoning process but may misrepresent or underemphasize key information when integrating relevance for final ranking. (c) SET SELECTION explicitly identifies all necessary information and selects relevant passages, ensuring more comprehensive information. This example is from the MultiHopRAG dataset (Tang and Yang, 2024). This holistic strategy encourages comprehensive coverage of essential information while reducing redundancy within the selected set (Figure 1). To make it practical for real-world applications, we introduce SETR, a fine-tuned LLM designed to implement our set-wise passage selection ap- proach. The model first analyzes the user question using Chain-of-Thought (CoT) reasoning to iden- tify its information requirements, and selects an optimal subset from the full list of retrieved pas- sages, maximizing coverage and relevance. This enables our method to serve as an effective alterna- tive to rerankers in RAG systems. Experiments on multi-hop RAG benchmarks, including HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018), 2Wiki-