impact of reasoning strategies including informa- tion requirement identification (IRI) and Chain- of-Thought (CoT) §5.2, design a controlled setup to isolate method-level effects (§5.3), and com- pare token efficiency between selection-based and reranking-based methods (§5.4). 5.1 Effectiveness of Set Selection: Informativeness and Robustness We analyze the effectiveness of our selection ap- proach in terms of two key perspectives: (1) in- formativeness; how comprehensively the selected passages cover the necessary information, and (2) robustness; the model’s ability to discard irrelevant or redundant content. Informativeness. Traditional ranking-based re- trieval systems typically score and select passages based on their individual relevance rather than the collective information gained from multiple pas- sages, and often fail to account for content dupli- cation. To address this, we additionally analyze information coverage , measuring how newly re- trieved gold evidence accumulates as the number of selected documents increases. This helps cap- ture how valid information accumulates as addi- tional documents are included. The MultiHopRAG dataset provides gold evidence lists, extractively collected from documents, allowing precise mea- (a) Hit@k distribution (b) HotpotQA (Yang et al., 2018) (c) 2WikiMultiHopQA (Ho et al., 2020) (d) Average information coverage (%) (e) MusiQue (Trivedi et al., 2022) (f) MultiHopRAG (Tang and Yang, 2024) Figure 3: (a) Hit@k distribution, and (d) average information coverage (%) are measured based on gold evidence lists from the MultiHopRAG benchmark. (b), (c), (e), and (f) report results of the standard RAG pipeline across benchmarks, varying the maximum number of passages utilized for answer generation. Note that SETR utilizes fewer than 5 passages on average for answer generation. surement of how much necessary information is covered by the selected passages. The formula used to calculate information coverage is detailed in Appendix A.3. We report two complementary metrics: Hit@ k, which reflects whether gold evi- dence appears in the