[8] is a contrastive learning-based retriever trained on 255M PubMed query-article interactions. It consists of a query encoder, document encoder, and a cross-encoder reranker. The cross- encoder refines retrieval results by reranking top candidates based on query-document contextual interactions. We use 2https://www.mongodb.com/ 3https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch Prompt Template for Medical QA System Prompt: You are a scientific medical assistant designed to synthe- size responses from specific medical documents. Only use the information provided in the documents to answer questions. The first documents should be the most relevant. Do not use any other information except for the documents provided. When answering questions, always format your response as a JSON object with fields for ’response’, ’used PMIDs’. Cite all PMIDs your response is based on in the ’used PMIDs’ field. Please think step-by-step before answering questions and provide the most accurate response possible. Provide your answer to the question in the ’response’ field. User Prompt: Answer the following question: ... Context Prompt: Here are the documents: "doc1": { "PMID": {...}, "title": {...}, "content": {...} "relevance_score": {...} }, ... Fig. 2: Prompting approach for biomedical QA. MedCPT to encode 2.4M abstracts. We filter results based on positive relevance scores. The Hybrid Retriever integrates BM25 and MedCPT for enhanced retrieval performance. BM25 first ranks a broad set of documents in Elasticsearch, after which MedCPT’s cross-encoder reranks the top-kresults. This combination leverages BM25’s efficiency and MedCPT’s semantic understanding to improve recall and precision. Metrics:We assess how well each method retrieves rele- vant documents. Sincerecallis critical for ensuring compre- hensive retrieval, we prioritize methods that maximize relevant document retrieval while maintaining highprecision. Text Generation.For text generation, we experiment with different prompting strategies for OpenAI’s GPT-3.5-turbo (API version May 2024, temperature=0), ensuring that gen- erated responses are accurate and contextually relevant. Given the biomedical domain’s strict accuracy requirements, we fo-