to users. In this setting, system performance should be evaluated based on three key aspects, as highlighted in Figure 1: (1) indexing and query time, which measures retrieval efficiency; (2) relevance of retrieved documents, ensuring the most informative sources are selected; and (3) answer correctness, verifying that the LLM- generated response aligns with biomedical evidence. Evaluat- ing and optimizing these factors improves the reliability and transparency of biomedical QA systems. III. EXPERIMENTALEVALUATION We evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of different retrieval and text-generation methods for biomedical question- answering (QA). Our experiments focus on selecting optimal 1https://github.com/slinusc/medical RAG system components for document retrieval, text generation, and over- all system performance following the three key aspects from Section II and using a common biomedical QA benchmark. A. Experimental Setup Datasets.We evaluate our biomedical RAG system on the BIOASQ [11] QA benchmark, which builds on the PubMed database [5]. Specifically, we use a 10% randomly sampled subset of 2.4M biomedical papers for the component analysis, while for the final system, we use the entire dataset of 24M. Each entry includes a PubMed ID (PMID), title, and abstract, with an average abstract length of 296 tokens. We evaluate our system using the Task-B dataset, which contains expert-annotated questions paired with supporting PubMed IDs (PMIDs). To ensure answerability within our PubMed subset, we first exclude factoid and list questions, which often require full-text access, making evaluation less precise. Second, we retain only questions with at least one PMID in our dataset to ensure they can be answered using our subset. Indexing and Retrieval Systems.We compare three stor- age and query systems: Elasticsearch, FAISS, and MongoDB. MongoDB2, a NoSQL document database, supports full- text search with TF-IDF-like scoring in its self-hosted version. While BM25 ranking is available in MongoDB Atlas Search, it is a cloud-only service