both keyword and semantic similarity retrieval [28]. 4.2.1 GraphRAG. GraphRAG [12] retrieves context via two query- ing engines: • LocalSearch: Optimized for OLTP-style queries by allocat- ing context across entity descriptions, relationships, com- munity summaries, and raw text. Users can fine-tune allo- cation parameters [12]. • GlobalSearch: Optimized for OLAP-style queries using a map-reduce approach that selects and integrates relevant community summaries to provide a holistic response. We use GraphRAG v0.3.6, configuring GlobalSearch with a commu- nity hierarchy of 4 and LocalSearch with a hierarchy of 5, allocating 50% text, 10% summaries, and 40% entities/relationships. New in- dexing mechanisms, such as the use of small language models and traditional NLP techniques, and new querying mechanisms, such as DriftSearch, have recently been introduced [27]. A deeper explo- ration and comparative analysis of these methods is left for future work. 4.2.2 RAPTOR. RAPTOR structures text as an acyclic hierarchical tree with recursive embeddings and summarization [35]. It offers two retrieval strategies: • Tree Traversal: Retrieves top-𝑘 similar chunks via cosine similarity and iteratively selects child nodes until reaching a predefined depth or user-defined token limit. • Collapsed Tree Traversal: All nodes are considered simul- taneously and the top- 𝑘 nodes selected based on cosine similarity without hierarchical traversal. We benchmark Tree Traversal with 𝑘 = 10 and a max context limit of 3500 tokens [35]. 4.2.3 Azure AI Hybrid Search. Azure AI Hybrid Search combines keyword and semantic similarity retrieval, fusing results between the two modalalities via Reciprocal Rank Fusion (RRF) to optimize ranking. Additional features include vector field filtering (e.g., time span, category) and custom re-ranking models. We use default set- tings to evaluate its effectiveness on OLAP and OLTP benchmarks [28]. 4.2.4 Oracle. For HotPotQA and MSMarco, we establish an Or- acle baseline using annotator-highlighted context, evidence they directly used