retrieves relevant information from diverse sources to assist engineers in resolving incidents effi- ciently. Since its launch in September 2023, the system has gained 1,000+ users, processed 30,000+ messages, and maintains an aver- age engagement rating of 3.5/5. While effective for recurring issues and daily tasks, it struggles with novel incidents, where extracting coherent and relevant data from heterogeneous sources is chal- lenging due to inconsistencies in format, terminology, and context. Additionally, specialized code snippets and complex data formats in DRI documents complicate information extraction, occasionally leading to inaccurate responses that hinder decision-making [51]. To improve recall and synthesis of information across multi- ple sources, we evaluate TREX alongside Azure AI Hybrid Search, assessing its potential to enhance response quality for complex, multi-document queries. 6.1 Evaluation Since launch, DRI Copilot [51] has received 700+ star ratings, with conversations rated 4 or 5 stars serving as ground-truth data. We evaluate TREX on a subset of these high-rated question-answer pairs, integrating it into the existing data pipeline (Figure 5) and comparing its performance against Hybrid Search. Hybrid Search achieves 39.1% accuracy, limited by its inability to capture intra- and inter-issue relationships [ 44]. In contrast, TREX improves accuracy to 65.2%, leveraging multi-hop retrieval structures that mitigate context fragmentation issues common in standard RAG systems. Future work includes integrating GraphRAG into the pipeline, as its graph-based representation could better capture hyperlinked Optimizing open-domain question answering with graph-based retrieval augmented generation technical support documents and community clusters, further im- proving retrieval accuracy and context synthesis in DRI Copilot. 7 CONCLUSION This work highlights the need for empirically grounded best prac- tices in Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) and context re- trieval mechanisms for LLMs, as guidelines for selecting and op- timizing these methods remain largely undocumented. The effec- tiveness of different RAG strategies—whether vector-based, graph- based,