and community clusters, further im- proving retrieval accuracy and context synthesis in DRI Copilot. 7 CONCLUSION This work highlights the need for empirically grounded best prac- tices in Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) and context re- trieval mechanisms for LLMs, as guidelines for selecting and op- timizing these methods remain largely undocumented. The effec- tiveness of different RAG strategies—whether vector-based, graph- based, or hybrid approaches—is often unknown until thorough em- pirical evaluation is conducted. By benchmarking diverse method- ologies, this work clarifies when and how various retrieval tech- niques are most effective, providing insights into their trade-offs across different query types and datasets. As LLMs evolve in an increasingly agentic landscape, their ability to leverage structured knowledge, synthesize multi-source information, and optimize or- chestration workflows remains critical. Future research should fo- cus on refining these methodologies and establishing clearer guide- lines for integrating LLMs with complex knowledge retrieval sys- tems. This study identifies where specific graph-based and advanced RAG technologies excel across OLTP- and OLAP-style queries, of- fering best practices for their deployment. We introduce TREX, a cost-effective method that handles both query types with mini- mal trade-offs, while emphasizing the need for rigorous evaluation standards to drive more effective adoption of AI-driven retrieval systems. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We extend our gratitude to Aleksey Savateyev and Chris Joakim for their insights on CosmosAIGraph. We also thank the members of the GraphRAG team—Alonso Fernandez, Andres Esquivel, Chris Trevino, Darren Edge, Dasha Metropolitansky, Nathan Evans and Robert Ness—for their support in auditing our work and sharing best practices for deploying GraphRAG effectively. Special thanks to Harsha Simhadri for pointing us towards the MSMARCO bench- mark and Avrilia Floratou, Brice Chung, Sandip Kulkarni, and Ay- dan Aksoylar for motivating this project. REFERENCES [1] Anonymous. 2024. Self-Learning Copilot for Document Retrieval. (2024). Work- ing paper. [2] Anthropic. [n.d.].