into GraphRAG, influencing both the retrieval granularity and the summarization depth. This chunking strategy allows GraphRAG to capture broader thematic connections across the dataset while maintaining a structured representation for multi-document syn- thesis. Across the assessed benchmarks, TREX and RAPTOR demon- strate strong performance for OLTP-style querying. For OLAP- style questions—where answers require significant pre-processing and integration of information from multiple texts—the results are more mixed, as highlighted by our LLM-based evaluation. We evaluate answers on OLAP-style benchmarks using metrics such as comprehensiveness, diversity, and empowerment. While TREX, RAPTOR, and Hybrid Search produce answers with fewer claims, GraphRAG consistently outperforms these approaches, delivering more comprehensive and expansive responses. However, for OLAP- style queries limited to a single document, TREX, RAPTOR, and Hybrid Search may be better suited, providing concise and targeted answers. Future work includes expanding this evaluation platform to as- sess the correctness and faithfulness of each claim, aiming to repli- cate the rigor of manual grading for OLAP-style benchmarks. 6 CASE STUDY Incident resolution is a manual, time-intensive process across many organizations. Designated responsible individuals (DRIs) work around the clock to address service outages, performance degradations, and other software or hardware failures [7]. Developing expertise in incident resolution is challenging, as critical knowledge is of- ten dispersed across siloed repositories, including internal wikis, engineering hubs, and personal SharePoint sites [32]. To streamline this process, an internal system known as the Data DRI Copilot [1, 51], a system that retrieves relevant information from diverse sources to assist engineers in resolving incidents effi- ciently. Since its launch in September 2023, the system has gained 1,000+ users, processed 30,000+ messages, and maintains an aver- age engagement rating of 3.5/5. While effective for recurring issues and daily tasks, it struggles with novel incidents, where extracting coherent and relevant data from heterogeneous sources