safeguarding its products and services against emerging threats. By embedding security deeply into the architecture of its offerings and using cutting-edge technologies like AI, Microsoft aims to stay ahead in the cybersecurity domain, ensuring trust and reliability for its users worldwide [12, 26]. A.2 Example of an entity generated from the LLM-index graph using default settings from the GraphRAG accelerator [12] JSON Blob: { "id": "181", "entity": "AMY", "description": "Amy is a high-ranking official or executive at Microsoft, likely involved in financial and strategic discussions at the company. She is actively engaged in conversations about capital expenditure, particularly focusing on Azure revenue growth and its impact on capex. Amy’s expertise also extends to Dynamics, indi- cating her involvement in business operations. She participates in financial calls, often addressing questions alongside Satya Nadella, and contributes valuable insights into asset management strategies. Additionally, Amy discusses cloud margins and AI investments, analyzing their margin impact both in the short term and long term. Her role allows her to add significant information to discussions about capital expenditure investments and yields, highlighting her comprehensive understanding of Microsoft’s financial strategies. ", "number of relationships": "10" } A.3 LLM-generated answer to OLAP query Comparison of answers from GraphRAG GlobalSearch and TREX in response to the query “How do tech leaders describe the influence of technology on everyday life?” in the Kevin Scott podcast benchmark [12, 35]. Optimizing open-domain question answering with graph-based retrieval augmented generation A.3.1 Answer from GraphRAG GlobalSearch. The Profound Impact of Technology on Everyday Life Tech leaders consistently highlight the transformative influence of technology on various aspects of everyday life. The Internet, for instance, has revolutionized how we access information, communi- cate, and collaborate, serving as a pivotal resource for innovation across multiple fields such as marketing, social media, AI, and music production [Data: