sectors do guests believe have the most un- tapped potential?” On this benchmark, TREX outperforms RAPTOR in diversity and empowerment, achieving higher scores 61% and 56% of the time, respectively, but falls behind on comprehensiveness. Although TREX appears to marginally outperform Hybrid Search, the difference is not statistically significant. GraphRAG, however, demonstrates the strongest performance across all metrics. The thematic and global nature of questions in the Kevin Scott Podcasts dataset aligns well with GraphRAG’s graph-structured representation, enabling it to generate highly comprehensive re- sponses. As shown in Appendix A.3, the results from TREX are nar- rower in scope and less prone to hallucinations, while GraphRAG provides more expansive and detailed answers. The performance from GraphRAG on this benchmark is achieved by generating com- munity summaries at a Leiden hierarchy level of 4 and indexing Cahoon et al. Figure 4: Mean Win Rates of TREX versus RAPTOR, GraphRAG Global Search, and Hybrid Search across the metric of comprehensiveness, diversity and empowerment on the two OLAP-style benchmarks. Results that are significant are marked with an asterisk. Global Search results shown are obtained from setting community level at 4 as that hierarchy resulted in the optimal response. Figure 5: Architecture of data preparation system in Azure Data Copilot and how TREX can be applied to improve con- textual retrieval. the Kevin Scott corpus at a granularity of 600 tokens. The 600- token granularity reflects how the full corpus is chunked as input into GraphRAG, influencing both the retrieval granularity and the summarization depth. This chunking strategy allows GraphRAG to capture broader thematic connections across the dataset while maintaining a structured representation for multi-document syn- thesis. Across the assessed benchmarks, TREX and RAPTOR demon- strate strong performance for OLTP-style querying. For OLAP- style questions—where answers require significant pre-processing and integration of information from