GraphRAG, with approximately a 10x reduction in indexing costs when using GPT-4o, as shown in Table 1. Querying costs are also generally lower for RAPTOR and TREX, as summa- rized in Table 2. Precision and recall are calculated here based on the ground truth entities specified in Wikipedia that are necessary to answer each query. Given that ground truth entities are expected to appear exactly as they do in the ground truth context, token precision and recall are not calculated. Using substring matching, recall is highest for GraphRAG LocalSearch, followed by TREX, Hybrid Search, RAPTOR, and finally GraphRAG GlobalSearch. Precision is highest for TREX and Hybrid Search, followed by RAPTOR and then GraphRAG. These results suggest that RAPTOR and TREX may be better suited for OLTP-style benchmarks. 5.2 OLAP-style Benchmarks 5.2.1 Microsoft Earnings Call Transcripts. This 40-question bench- mark evaluates the performance of the existing suite of RAG strate- gies by separately analyzing queries sourced from a single earnings transcript versus those requiring synthesis across multiple tran- scripts. To assess performance, we employ an automated evaluation suite from Edge et al. [12], using GPT-4o as a judge. This evaluation compares TREX, RAPTOR, GraphRAG Global Search, and Hybrid Search on metrics of comprehensiveness, diversity, and empow- erment. Mean win rate serves as the evaluation metric, with the LLM-as-judge run six times per question and averaged across all comparisons. As shown in Figure 4, TREX outperforms RAPTOR across all three metrics for both single-transcript and multi-transcript queries. Its performance is comparable to Hybrid Search, while its results against GraphRAG Global Search are mixed. For multi-document (multi-transcript) queries spanning the entire corpus of earnings transcripts, GraphRAG excels, producing answers with higher com- prehensiveness, diversity, and empowerment. For single-document queries, TREX seems to slightly outperform GraphRAG in terms of comprehensiveness and empowerment, though the