existing solutions. 1.1 Industry Trends With our diverse range of customer engagements across sectors such as manufacturing, healthcare, finance and telecommunica- tions, we have identified two distinct classes of queries that are of particular interest to our clients. These query types can be broadly categorized based on their question scope (e.g., local versus global) [12]: • Online Transaction Processing (OLTP): These are straight- forward, fact-based queries that can be answered through direct key-value lookups, extraction of specific text snippets, or by locally traversing closely related pieces of informa- tion, such as “What is the price of Microsoft stock today?” or “What was Microsoft’s revenue in the fourth quarter of FY2024?” Such queries are data-driven and generally limited in scope [26]. • Online Analytical Processing (OLAP): These queries are open-ended and thematic, requiring the aggregation, syn- thesis, and abstraction of information across multiple docu- ments. Examples include questions like “What are the key trends in the technology sector?” or “How is the balance between innovation and ethics discussed?” [12] OLAP-style queries are activity-driven and broader in scope, making their evaluation particularly challenging. Unlike fact-based queries, which have clear-cut answers, OLAP queries often Figure 1: Breakdown of the percentage of OLTP vs OLAP- style queries within each benchmark. yield a diverse range of valid responses, further complicat- ing the assessment of correctness. Insights from our customer engagements reveal that the distribution of queries between OLTP and OLAP-style are quite mixed, with some customers that are exclusively interested in broader, activity- driven, OLAP-type, while others are primarily interested in local, data-driven, OLTP-style queries on their data. While ongoing focus groups need to be conducted to better quantify this distribution, recognizing these query types has directly shaped our selection of four benchmarking datasets, as illustrated by Figure 1. Through our engagements, we have gained