both single-transcript and multi-transcript queries. Its performance is comparable to Hybrid Search, while its results against GraphRAG Global Search are mixed. For multi-document (multi-transcript) queries spanning the entire corpus of earnings transcripts, GraphRAG excels, producing answers with higher com- prehensiveness, diversity, and empowerment. For single-document queries, TREX seems to slightly outperform GraphRAG in terms of comprehensiveness and empowerment, though the difference is not statistically significant. Closer analysis reveals that some of the degradation in per- formance for GraphRAG in the single-document scenario is due to the hallucinations that occasionally arise, as illustrated in the Appendix A.1. These findings suggest that GraphRAG is particu- larly effective for OLAP-style questions requiring synthesis across multiple documents, while TREX provides a cost-effective alter- native with moderate performance trade-offs and stronger results for single-document queries. The hierarchical structure of earn- ings calls, which reflects the natural organization of enterprise topics, aligns well with TREX’s tree-based approach for single tran- scripts [39]. However, this structure may not generalize effectively when handling queries across multiple years of earnings transcripts. Given this, the higher quality responses provided by GraphRAG may justify its increased execution cost as shown in Figure 1. 5.2.2 Kevin Scott Podcasts. The Kevin Scott Podcasts benchmark presents a unique challenge due to its open-ended questions, which require detailed and nuanced responses rather than concise answers. Examples of such questions include “How frequently do discussions about artificial intelligence arise compared to other topics?” and “Which technological sectors do guests believe have the most un- tapped potential?” On this benchmark, TREX outperforms RAPTOR in diversity and empowerment, achieving higher scores 61% and 56% of the time, respectively, but falls behind on comprehensiveness. Although TREX appears to marginally outperform Hybrid Search, the difference is not statistically significant. GraphRAG, however, demonstrates the strongest performance across all metrics. The thematic