Realistically, a single user simulator does not cover the needs and behavior of the wide range of users interacting with the system. 6 Proactive Interactions Typically, users initiate the interaction with a generative retrieval system, for example by submitting a chit-chat utterance, asking a question, or submitting an action request. In mixed-initiative conversational systems, the agent is also able to initiate the conversation. This is also called a proactive, system-initiative, or agent-initiative conversation. Existing generative AI systems are relatively under-developed when it comes to proactive interactions [43]. A major reason is that initiating a conversation by the system is not only challenging, but can also be risky; frequent and non-relevant proactive interactions may annoy users and hurt user satisfaction and trust [85]. Therefore, whether and when to initiate a proactive interaction are the key decisions a proactive CIS system should make. filtering streaming data recommendation conversation follow-up contributing to a multi-party conv. feedback request Instance collection … stream of information user profile & context user profile & context conversation generation device and modality selection initiation purposes interface initiator past user-system interactions 𝜙 𝜓 𝛾 Fig. 2. A generic pipeline for conversation initiation in CIS systems by Wadhwa and Zamani [74]. 6.1 An Overview of Proactive Generative Retrieval Systems Wadhwa and Zamani [74] explored proactive conversational information access systems, discussing their challenges and opportunities. The authors introduced a taxonomy of proactive interactions, delineating three dimensions: (1) initiation moment (when to initiate a conversation), (2) initiation purpose (why to initiate a conversation), and (3) initiation means (how to initiative a conversation). They identified five purposes for initiating interactions: (1) filtering streaming infor- mation, (2) context-aware recommendation, (3) following up a past user-system conversation, (4) contributing to a multi-party human conversation, and (5) re- questing feedback from users. A generic pipeline for these