can lead to complexity, which can make interfaces harder to comprehend and can overwhelm users. From the history of search interface evolution, we know that more complex search interfaces have not been widely accepted. For example, faceted search UIs led to a sharp learning curve and increased cognitive load [77]. History likes to repeat itself. Will it be the case with user interfaces for LLMs? Will the more complex interfaces for LLMs become only niche products? 10 Conclusions As mentioned multiple times throughout this chapter, handling complex inter- action types and modalities has been relatively under-explored and the authors find it a rich area of investment for the further development of generative in- formation retrieval systems. This chapter pointed out prior work on various interaction types, from expressing information need to result refinement and mixed-initiative interactions, including clarification, feedback, and proactive in- teractions. Recent developments in (multi-modal) foundation models, including large language models, have paved the path towards better understanding com- plex user interactions, but we are still far from ideal generative information retrieval systems that can satisfy user needs efficiently, effectively, fairly, and robustly. Bibliography [1] Abbasiantaeb, Z., Yuan, Y., Kanoulas, E., Aliannejadi, M.: Let the LLMs Talk: Simulating Human-to-Human Conversational QA via Zero-Shot LLM- to-LLM Interactions. In: WSDM. pp. 8–17. ACM (2024) [2] Aliannejadi, M., Azzopardi, L., Zamani, H., Kanoulas, E., Thomas, P., Craswell, N.: Analysing mixed initiatives and search strategies during con- versational search. In: CIKM. pp. 16–26. ACM (2021) [3] Aliannejadi, M., Kiseleva, J., Chuklin, A., Dalton, J., Burtsev, M.: Convai3: Generating clarifying questions for open-domain dialogue systems (clariq). CoRR abs/2009.11352 (2020) [4] Aliannejadi, M., Kiseleva, J., Chuklin, A., Dalton, J., Burtsev, M.: Build- ing and evaluating open-domain dialogue corpora with clarifying questions. In: EMNLP (1). pp. 4473–4484. Association for Computational Linguistics (2021) [5] Aliannejadi, M.,