Interactions with Generative Information Retrieval Systems Mohammad Aliannejadi1, Jacek Gwizdka2, and Hamed Zamani 3 1 University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands m.aliannejadi@uva.nl 2 University of Texas at Austin, United States jacekg@utexas.edu 3 University of Massachusetts Amherst zamani@cs.umass.edu Draft of a chapter intended to appear in a forthcoming book on generative information retrieval, co-edited by Chirag Shah and Ryen White. 1 Introduction At its core, information access and seeking is an interactive process. In existing search engines, interactions are limited to a few pre-defined actions, such as “re- query”, “click on a document”, “scrolling up/down”, “going to the next result page”, “leaving the search engine”, etc. A major benefit of moving towards gen- erative IR systems is enabling users with a richer expression of information need and feedback and free-form interactions in natural language and beyond. In other words, the actions users take are no longer limited by the clickable links and but- tons available on the search engine result page and users can express themselves freely through natural language. This can go even beyond natural language, through images, videos, gestures, and sensors using multi-modal generative IR systems. This chapter briefly discusses the role of interaction in generative IR systems. We will first discuss different ways users can express their information needs by interacting with generative IR systems (Section 2). We then explain how users can provide explicit or implicit feedback to generative IR systems and how they can consume such feedback (Section 3). Next, we will cover how users interactively can refine retrieval results (Section 4). We will expand upon mixed- initiative interactions and discuss clarification and preference elicitation in more detail (Section 5). We then discuss proactive generative IR systems, including context-aware recommendation, following up past conversations, contributing to multi-party conversations, and feedback requests (Section 6). Providing explana- tion is