topics to help users better understand and articulate their needs. This is an example of Clarification which we describe in Section 5. (2) prompt sug- gestions: offer prompt suggestions or follow-up questions to guide users towards more specific questions. This is an example of Proactive Interactions which we describe in Section 6. Support for Conscious Need: (1) partial expression of needs : accept par- tially formed questions or statements of need; (2) proactive support for refine- ment: generate relevant information that helps users refine their understanding of what they’re looking for; (3) guided conversations : engage in a dialogue to help users articulate their needs more precisely. We describe such approaches in more detail in Result Refinement (Section 4) and Proactive Interactions (Section 6). Support for Formalized Need: (1) direct queries: respond directly to well- formulated questions with relevant information; (2)structured responses: provide detailed, structured responses that address specific aspects of the user’s need; (3) advanced features: offer options (e.g., filters) for further exploration or clar- ification based on the formalized need. Finally, support for Compromised Need : (1) flexibility of syntax : offer flexibility to allow for iterative refinement of queries without strict syntax re- quirements; (2) flexibility of language : interpret and respond to a wide range of query formats, reducing the need for users to adapt their language significantly; (3) feedback loop: offer feedback on questions, suggesting modifications or alter- native phrasings to better match the user’s needs and system’s capabilities. We describe such approaches in more detail in Proactive Feedback (Section 3). Overall, the key advantages of LLMs in assisting users at all four levels of information need are: – Natural Language Processing : LLMs can understand and respond to queries expressed in natural language, making them accessible even at the visceral and conscious need levels.