ex- ample, recent work [27] reviewed 73 papers published in HCI conferences since 2021 to investigate the dynamics of human-LLM interaction. Authors identified four key phases in the interaction flow and developed a taxonomy of four pri- mary interaction modes. The four phases are: planning - before an interaction, facilitating - during an interaction, iterating - refining an interaction, and test- ing - testing an interaction. The interaction modes include: Standard Prompting, User Interface, Context-based and Agent Facilitator . The User Interface mode is of most interest to us as it enhances user interactions with LLMs beyond the conversational interface by improving input, output, iteration, and reasoning processes. This mode contains five approaches, which could be used separately or in combination. (1) Structured prompt approaches assist users in creating multi-component prompts, which could range from zero-shot to few-shot, and support specification of constraints. Tools like PromptMaker [30] combine pre- fixes, settings, and examples in prompt creation. (2) Varying output approaches allow users to specify output formats. Early examples like GenLine and Gen- Form [31] facilitate generation of user specified mixed outputs, such as HTML, JavaScript, and CSS code. User’s control over output format allows for high level of personalization and, potentially, enhances consumption of information. (3) Iteration of interaction approaches include features such as debugging, error labeling, regenerating, and self-repairing, enabling users to refine their origi- nal prompts and workflows. BotDesigner [86], for instance, helps users identify and label errors within conversations and offers a ”retry” button to regener- ate outputs. (4) Testing of interaction facilitates the testing of various prompt variations, useful for quick testing of complex solutions. Tools like VISAR [93] use visual programming to enable rapid prototyping and testing of writing or- ganization. (5) UI to support reasoning incorporates direct manipulation in the Chain-of-Thought process, allowing users