within conversations and offers a ”retry” button to regener- ate outputs. (4) Testing of interaction facilitates the testing of various prompt variations, useful for quick testing of complex solutions. Tools like VISAR [93] use visual programming to enable rapid prototyping and testing of writing or- ganization. (5) UI to support reasoning incorporates direct manipulation in the Chain-of-Thought process, allowing users to actively participate in and reorga- nize reasoning sequences. Other approaches in this area offer visual programming techniques, such as chain designs and mind maps and enable a more interactive and user-defined reasoning framework [32, 65, 93]. For example, Graphologue [32] introduced: (1) graphical diagrams which convert text-based responses from LLMs into diagrams; (2) graphical dialogues which enable graphical, non-linear dialogues between humans and LLMs; and (3) interactive diagrams which allow users to adjust graphical presentation, its complexity and submit context-specific prompts. MacNeil et al. [44] explores three methods for integrating LLMs into user in- terfaces through a framework called Prompt Middleware. The three methods are: (1) Static Prompts are predefined prompts generated by experts through prompt engineering. They can be invoked by using UI elements (e.g., buttons), allowing users to send high-quality prompts to with minimal effort. This method lever- ages best practices but limits user control over prompt generation. (2) Template- Based Prompts involve generating prompts by filling in a template with options selected from the UI. The template integrates expertise and best practices, giving users more control through UI options. This method is exemplified by the Feed- backBuffet prototype, a writing assistant that uses template-based prompts to generate feedback on writing samples [44]. (3) Free-Form Prompts: This method grants users full control over the prompting process. Although challenging, it is beneficial in scenarios where complete control is desired. Wang et al. [75] present a proactive interface design