Taylor’s levels, they also have limitations. They may sometimes provide plausible-sounding but incorrect information, lack true understanding of context beyond the immediate conversation, and cannot replace the critical thinking and expertise of human information professionals in complex scenarios. While LLMs can offer enhanced capabilities for expressing information needs, they also introduce new challenges. Such as Capability Gap: users may struggle to formulate their intentions clearly and effectively, leading to a gap between what they want and what the LLMs provides. Instruction Gap : users need to learn how to craft effective prompts, which can involve understanding the LLMs’s capabilities and limitations. Evaluation of Outputs : users must critically evalu- ate the LLMs’s responses for accuracy and relevance, as LLMs can sometimes generate incorrect or misleading information. A recent paper introduced these three gaps and termed them collectively the ”Gulf of Envisioning” [64]. In the following sections we address selected aspects of user-LLMs-based- system-interactions, 3 Proactive Feedback 4, Result Refinement 5 Clarification, 6 Proactive Interactions, 7 Explanation, and 8 Multi-Modal Interactions. In Sec- tion 9, User Interfaces, we discuss recent user interface frameworks and solutions. 3 Proactive Feedback Recent developments in large language models have paved the path towards com- plex interactions between the user and the system. Generative IR models are able to satisfy user’s information needs in multiple interaction turns. Among many possibilities, this enables users to provide feedback to the system. Feedback can be provided when is explicitly requested by the system, for example in the form of clarifying questions or preference elicitation [5, 82, 52, 49]. Section 5 discusses these aspects in more detail. Feedback can be also requested for assessing the quality of the system at the end or in the middle of a conversation. For instance, Amazon’s Alexa Prize Challenge [51] has sought explicit rating