through UI options. This method is exemplified by the Feed- backBuffet prototype, a writing assistant that uses template-based prompts to generate feedback on writing samples [44]. (3) Free-Form Prompts: This method grants users full control over the prompting process. Although challenging, it is beneficial in scenarios where complete control is desired. Wang et al. [75] present a proactive interface design that addresses chal- lenges users face in initializing and refining prompts, providing feedback to the system, and managing cognitive load. They describe three interaction techniques (Perception Articulation, Prompt Suggestions, Conversation Explanation ) and how they can be supported by user interface elements. Perception articulation is supported by a pre-task questionnaire and main prompt template - the first supports information need at the visceral level, while the latter at the formalized level. Prompt suggestions are provided through supportive function tabs, which support conscious need. Conversation explanations are also delivered through supportive function tabs, with a feedback mechanism allowing users to rate the usefulness of these explanations. This feature supports compromised needs. Evaluation with participants demonstrated the effectiveness of these supportive functions in reducing cognitive load, guiding prompt refinement, and increasing user engagement. In interviews, participants appreciated the perception articu- lation functions for setting expectations and the conversation explanations for balancing expectations and satisfaction. On one hand, the design space of user interfaces for LLMs offers a myriad of new interaction possibilities. On the other, taking advantage of the new possi- bilities can lead to complexity, which can make interfaces harder to comprehend and can overwhelm users. From the history of search interface evolution, we know that more complex search interfaces have not been widely accepted. For example, faceted search UIs led to a sharp learning curve and increased cognitive load [77]. History likes to repeat itself. Will it be the case