by the generative retrieval system. It is perhaps safe to interpret such responses as negative feedback. – Relevant response: Users provide a pertinent response to the initiated inter- action, typically occurring when the interaction involves a question or solicits feedback. – Postpone: Users respond to the initiated conversation and request the system to remind them at a later time. – Critique or clarification-seeking response: Users engage further with the gen- erative retrieval system, either seeking more information or critiquing exist- ing engagement. – Follow-up: Users provide a follow-up response to obtain additional informa- tion or perform actions related to the initiated conversation. – Topic drift: Users respond but shift the topic of the initiated conversation. 4 https://slack.com/ 6.3 Technical Challenges Here, we outline key technical hurdles in implementing the pipeline shown in Figure 2. Producing System-Initiative Instances. The initial step in the system- initiation pipeline involves identifying reasons for initiating a conversation and generating a proactive instance. Proactive instances encapsulate all relevant in- formation about a conversation, including its purpose, content, and context. This process entails addressing each initiation purpose component outlined in Figure 2. While some purposes, such as filtering streaming information and rec- ommendation, have received attention in the literature, others like following up a past conversation or contributing to a multi-party conversation remain relatively unexplored. Thus, a major technical challenge lies in developing models capable of identifying the reasons for conversation initiation across various goals, includ- ing filtering information, recommendation, conversation follow-up, contributing to multi-party conversations, or requesting feedback. Developing an Initiator Model. The subsequent step involves selecting a proactive instance from the instance collection using an initiator component. The primary challenge in this component stems from our limited understanding of the optimal moment to initiate a conversation. Consequently, future research should emphasize conducting user studies to