systems, delineating how such content—comprising audio, visual, and textual elements—enriches real-world recommendation challenges. A significant challenge in Multimedia Information Systems lies in fusing mul- tiple modalities to derive meaningful representations. Recent advancements in multi-modal large language models employ joint representation techniques to establish a latent space where multiple modality information can be compared. However, aligning content data like text and images is relatively straightforward compared to aligning content with user preferences such as ratings or social media data. Deldjoo et al. [20] explored multi-modal conversational information-seeking tasks from multiple perspectives. They investigated (1) Why using multi-modal interactions, (2) Which tasks to support in multi-modal conversational systems, (3) When to integrate multiple modalities in conversations, and (4) How to research multiple modalities and conversations to enable multi-modal conversa- tional information seeking. Deldjoo et al. [20] highlight the importance of each of these perspectives through a real-world example: Imagine a person is cycling along the road on their way to work. She is planning her day, including tasks from presenting a budget, hosting a new client, picking up their children after school, and making dinner. The cyclist passes a flower on the sideroad, which caught her eye and wanted to know what this plant is. Since she is cycling on a busy road, she quickly stops, takes a photo, and keeps riding. Meanwhile, she asks her earbuds to tell her which plant that was by a spoken query such as “what was that plant and is it edible?” The authors argue that generative IR systems with multi-modal interactions and multi-modal sensors can accomplish the user’s need in this and even more complex scenarios. Dealing with multi-modal interactions is a multidisciplinary topic, spanning across research areas from information retrieval, recommender systems, multi-media, human-computer interactions, computer vision, and even psychological and cognitive sciences. The