(Section 3). Next, we will cover how users interactively can refine retrieval results (Section 4). We will expand upon mixed- initiative interactions and discuss clarification and preference elicitation in more detail (Section 5). We then discuss proactive generative IR systems, including context-aware recommendation, following up past conversations, contributing to multi-party conversations, and feedback requests (Section 6). Providing explana- tion is another interaction type that we briefly discuss in this chapter (Section 7). We will also briefly describe multi-modal interactions in generative information retrieval (Section 8). Finally, we describe emerging frameworks and solutions for user interfaces with generative AI systems (Section 9). We conclude with a question: Will the myriad interaction possibilities afforded by generative AI systems be embraced by a broad user base, or will they remain merely a research curiosity? arXiv:2407.11605v1 [cs.IR] 16 Jul 2024 2 Expressing Information Needs An information need is what prompts users to seek information through vari- ous means, such as asking others, consulting printed resources, other media, or searching online. It arises from the awareness of a gap in a user’s knowledge or understanding, necessitating the acquisition of information to bridge that gap [12, 25]. Bridging the gap helps to fulfill a specific purpose or goal, which is typically driven by a work task [13]. Prompt-based interactions with large language modelss (LLMs), and more broadly, multi-modal interactions with LLMs-based systems, provide an oppor- tunity to fundamentally rethink the processes of searching for, finding, and using information, and how to support these activities. This fresh perspective has the potential to significantly transform user experience by enhancing how users ex- press their information needs and achieve their goals. We will frame our considerations using the information need model proposed by Robert Taylor in the 1960s [69, 70]. Taylor identified four levels of infor- mation need, each