results, users already have a quality perception by scanning through the page title, summary, and URL. Even though the LLM-based search interfaces aim to mimic this experience, it is not yet clear which parts of the generated response are extracted from the cited document. Moreover, it is not clear how much the system depends on its intrinsic knowledge (i.e., model parameters) vs. the retrieved document. Therefore, more research in this area is required to understand how much different techniques and modes of explanation affect the users’ perception of quality and trust. One potential alternative is to treat the system as an information-gathering tool [53], rather than an information system. In such cases, the responses would look like “After searching the web, I found numerous sources of information about your query. Two of more trustworthy sources mention that ....” With such a response, not only does the user learn about the search space of the given query, but also they learn about the most important information extracted from the topic documents. 8 Multi-Modal Interactions Research has demonstrated the advantageous role of multimodal signals in both keyword-based and recommendation-driven searches, spanning from contextual item recommendations [33, 76] to visual and multimedia recommendations [46]. These signals also address challenges like cold-start issues [18, 47, 15] and aiding in explaining and visualizing recommendation outcomes [68]. A recent survey by Deldjoo et al. [19] offers insights into the role of multimedia content in rec- ommendation systems, delineating how such content—comprising audio, visual, and textual elements—enriches real-world recommendation challenges. A significant challenge in Multimedia Information Systems lies in fusing mul- tiple modalities to derive meaningful representations. Recent advancements in multi-modal large language models employ joint representation techniques to establish a latent space where multiple modality information can be compared. However, aligning content data like text and