and disappointment are examples of explicit negative feedback. Current state-of-the-art technologies often cannot successfully take advantage of explicit negative feedback and often limit themselves to acknowledging the system’s limitations and apologizing from the users. There are huge potentials in successfully comprehending negative feedback from users. In generative IR systems, grounding as relevance feedback is also relevant to the concept of explicit feedback. Trippas et al. [71] define grounding as discourse for the creation of mutual knowledge and beliefs. Examples include providing indirect feedback by reciting their interpretation of the results. This process can potentially enable CIS systems to better understand a user’s awareness of the results, background knowledge, or information need. We would like to highlight the potentials in providing implicit feedback as well. Progress in commercial (web) search engines is in debt to large-scale implicit feedback collected from user interactions, such as clicks, skipped results, dwell time, and cursor (mouse) movement. Implicit feedback in generative IR systems is more challenging, because it is more likely to deal with abandonment in each session. This means that users may leave the system as they receive the answer they want without providing any positive feedback. Alternatively, they may leave the system as they lose hope in getting the right answer from the system. Besides abandonment, changing topics and asking follow-up questions can be interpreted as an implicit feedback signal in generative IR. Interpreting these user behaviors is essential in improving generative IR systems. Research in understanding and modeling implicit (negative) feedback is rel- atively sparse and future technologies can greatly benefit from further research in this space. 4 Result Refinement 4.1 An Overview of Result Refinement Result refinement is relatively understudied, compared to other modes of inter- action in generative IR. Search result refinement has a long history of research in IR,