the retrieval component in RAG has been understudied in comparison to the genera- tion component despite its substantial impact on the final performance of such hybrid systems. (Petroni et al. 2024; Cuconasu et al. 2024) 8 Conclusion We were able to deliver a first working version of an IT product solution recommendation system employing RAG. To our knowledge, this is the first published architecture and performance metrics of such a RAG system in this do- main. Our system also differentiates itself with a few innova- tions including a component for classifying support cases as single-turn and a component for distilling verbose case de- scriptions into a query suitable for retrieval. We demonstrate that smaller models leveraging retrieved domain context can match or out-perform substantially larger models both with and without context (Ahmed et al. 2023b; Liu et al. 2024) particularly with knowledge infusion through fine-tuning. However, there are still many challenges in implementing RAG for IT support incident resolution including improving retrieval performance. We are collecting feedback from sup- port specialists using our current deployment, and intend to incorporate their advice into future improvements. References Ahmed, S.; Singh, M.; Doherty, B.; Ramlan, E.; Harkin, K.; Bucholc, M.; and Coyle, D. 2023a. Knowledge-based Intel- ligent System for IT Incident DevOps. In 2023 IEEE/ACM International Workshop on Cloud Intelligence & AIOps (AIOps), 1–7. Los Alamitos, CA, USA: IEEE Computer So- ciety. Ahmed, T.; Ghosh, S.; Bansal, C.; Zimmermann, T.; Zhang, X.; and Rajmohan, S. 2023b. Recommending Root-Cause and Mitigation Steps for Cloud Incidents Using Large Lan- guage Models. In Proceedings of the 45th International Conference on Software Engineering, ICSE ’23, 1737–1749. IEEE Press. ISBN 9781665457019. Almazrouei, E.; Alobeidli, H.; Alshamsi, A.; Cappelli, A.; Cojocaru, R.; Debbah, M.; Goffinet, E.; Heslow, D.; Lau- nay, J.; Malartic, Q.; Noune, B.; Pannier, B.; and Penedo,