augmentation Hallucinations are sensory perceptions that occur without an external stimulus, often involving sight, sound, or touch. In the context of schizophrenia, auditory hallucinations are more likely to occur in situations where there is a discrepancy between the literal and intended meaning of speech, such as metaphors and irony. These hallucinations may be based on inner speech that the patient misattributes to an external source. The experience underlying many "auditory" hallucinations may occur at a more abstract level, without a sensory component. Hallucinations are sensory perceptions that occur without external stimuli, often involving sight, sound, or touch. In the context of schizophrenia, auditory hallucinations are a common symptom, where individuals hear voices or sounds that are not present in reality. These hallucinations can be influenced by factors such as the complexity of auditory stimuli and the presence of random noise. In some cases, hallucinations may be related to inner speech, which is the continuous stream of thoughts and mental images experienced by an individual. Understanding the nature and causes of hallucinations is crucial for diagnosing and treating schizophrenia and other mental health conditions. Hallucinations are perceptions that occur without any external stimulus, often associated with mental health conditions like schizophrenia. In the context provided, auditory hallucinations may be based on inner speech, which the patient misattributes to an external source. These experiences can be influenced by imbalances between high and low level processes in the brain, particularly in schizophrenic patients. RAG & query augmentation Hallucinations are perceptions that occur when an individual experiences sensory stimuli that are not present in reality. They are often attributed to intrusions of material from long-term memory, which the person mistakenly believes to be coming from an external source. In the context provided, hallucinations are observed in schizophrenia, where there is a lack of structure