to human behavior due to differences in the effects of amphetamine on animals and humans. 26 Is there a link between substance abuse and schizophrenia? (with extra article) TF-IDF Doc2Vec BERT No RAG & No query augmentation Yes, there is a link between substance abuse and schizophrenia. Substance abuse can trigger or exacerbate symptoms in individuals with schizophrenia, while schizophrenia can increase the risk of substance abuse. Both factors can contribute to a cycle of negative outcomes, such as cognitive impairment, social problems, and reduced life expectancy. RAG & No query augmentation There is a potential link between substance abuse and schizophrenia, as comorbid substance abuse has been found in recent-onset schizophrenia. Parkinson's disease, which can be treated with drugs that stimulate the dopamine system, has also been linked to schizophrenia. However, the cognitive basis of these connections is vague and further research is needed to establish a clear relationship between substance abuse and schizophrenia. There is a potential link between substance abuse and schizophrenia, as suggested by various studies and authors. Defects in self-monitoring processes might lead to hallucinations, and incoherent speech has been proposed as a possible indicator of schizophrenia. Studies have also shown that substance use and abuse are prevalent in first-episode psychosis and can influence the onset and course of schizophrenia. Additionally, there is evidence of lower negative symptom scores among cannabis-dependent patients with schizophrenia-spectrum disorders. However, more research is needed to establish a definitive connection between substance abuse and schizophrenia. There is a potential link between substance abuse and schizophrenia, as evidenced by the effects of amphetamine on animals. Amphetamine disrupts contention scheduling in the basal ganglia, leading to behavioral abnormalities such as incoherence, incongruity, and stereotyped behavior. However, more systematic studies are needed to examine these hypotheses, as current research often relies on comparing