the use of certain medications for schizophrenia can have parkinsonian side-effects, which may be similar to the effects of some drugs. It is important to note that the link between substance abuse and schizophrenia is not definitive, and further research is needed to establish a clear connection. There is a potential link between substance abuse and schizophrenia, as evidenced by the effects of amphetamine on animals, which can produce behavioral abnormalities similar to those in schizophrenia. However, the cognitive basis of these formulations is too vague to be useful, and the connection is mainly established through task performance rather than underlying cognitive processes. This approach is based on behaviorism and is essentially an argument by analogy. Further research is needed to better understand the relationship between substance abuse and schizophrenia. There is a potential link between substance abuse and schizophrenia, as receptors have been found to be increased in drug-naïve schizophrenic patients in the USA. However, in Sweden, receptor sensitivity has been found to be normal. The relationship between substance abuse and schizophrenia is complex and not fully understood, as there is also indirect evidence against the simple dopamine hypothesis. Behavioral abnormalities in schizophrenia, such as incoherence, incongruity, and stereotyped behavior, may be related to the brain's contention scheduling, which is instantiated in the basal ganglia. Amphetamine's effects on contention scheduling could potentially explain some positive behavioral abnormalities in schizophrenia, but there is a major problem in linking animal studies to human behavior due to differences in the effects of amphetamine on animals and humans. 26 Is there a link between substance abuse and schizophrenia? (with extra article) TF-IDF Doc2Vec BERT No RAG & No query augmentation Yes, there is a link between substance abuse and schizophrenia. Substance abuse can trigger or exacerbate symptoms in individuals with schizophrenia, while schizophrenia