interest of each entity in the event. •Quantitative impact of the event on subsequent plot or storyline. Implicit Strategy Parsing Prompt:—Goal— -Initial query decomposition: 1.question:Consistent with the original question. 2.rewrite question:Without altering the original intention of the user, expand, clarify, structure and align the input query with entities, making it more convenient for downstream search engines or knowledge bases to retrieve, while 24 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory enhancing semantic integrity. •Provide context (For example, time, place, topic, etc.). • Entity alignment and period matching (If the entities in the query have specific names at different stages, then replace them with the original terms that match the corresponding stage). • Disambiguation and Reference Clarification (Replace vague references such as “it”, “this”, and “influence” with specific nouns to avoid ambiguity.). • Synonyms / Domain Terminology Expansion (Introduce synonyms, near-synonyms, and domain-specific terms to enhance the recall rate). 3.key entities:Extract nouns or noun phrases that have clear referential meanings from the query, such as people, places, organizations, events, technologies, concepts, etc. •The entity should be linkable (able to correspond to the entries in the knowledge base). • Provide all the aliases, abbreviations, names, titles, etc. of this entity at different stages (including obscure ones) to enhance the coverage of search results. •Output format: [Entity1|Alias1|Alias2, Entity2|Alias3|Alias4|Alias5]. 4.keywords:Extract a multi-dimensional keyword set from the query, which is used to represent the core intention and retrieval direction of the user. 5.target layer:According to the characteristics of the query problem, combined with the information of the knowledge hypergraph architecture, predict which layer of the architecture the answer vertices related to the problem are located in (ranging from 1 to 3, type as Int). 6.matching score:This score (ranging from 1 to 5, type as Int) reflects the degree of relevance between the