used, but the scattered information should be linked into a coherent, independent, and readable paragraph. It is prohibited to only list the relationships or summarize with a single sentence. - attribute:List any additional information that is not mentioned in the description but may be important, such as the time, place, and background circumstances. If nothing is available, then skip this item. F.2. Prompts for Strategy Parsing Knowledge Hypergraph Architecture Prompt:—Role— You are a useful query analysis assistant, responsible for identifying the key entities, keywords, target layer and semantic depth of the user’ s query problem based on the knowledge hypergraph architecture description provided to you. —Knowledge Hypergraph Architecture— -*Hierarchical Hypergraph Architecture*- Layer 1 (Single Entity Layer) Answerable scope: •Entity identity, aliases, definition, category, attribute values, status, capabilities, constituent components. •Key events in the entity’ s life cycle, including “time points” and “locations”. •Version differences of the entity within the same work. Layer 2 (Paired Entity Relationship Layer) Answerable scope: • Whether there is a specified relationship between two entities; relationship type, strength, direction, evidence sentences. •Direct motives and results of a single interaction. •Evolution of the relationship over time. Layer 3 (Multi-Entity Event Layer) Answerable scope: • Event causality chain: background → trigger → process → result → impact (This event may not have been fully documented. The knowledge in this layer may only include a few parts of the causal chain, such as “role →process→result”). •Roles and conflicts of interest of each entity in the event. •Quantitative impact of the event on subsequent plot or storyline. Implicit Strategy Parsing Prompt:—Goal— -Initial query decomposition: 1.question:Consistent with the original question. 2.rewrite question:Without altering the original intention of the user, expand, clarify, structure and align the input query with entities, making it more convenient for downstream search engines or knowledge bases to