new vertices are activated, b increases to trigger back- tracking; otherwise, it decreases. Ultimately, The effective threshold is τ (t) =τ (t) 0 −b , where t∈ {L,H} . This mech- anism balances exploration and exploitation, preventing diffusion stagnation while suppressing noise amplification to ensure controllable propagation. The PABD algorithm terminates upon reaching the query’s semantic depth d or upon diffusion stagnation. The activated vertices are sorted in descending order of extended relevance s′(v)for context-window truncation. 3.5.2. ADAPTIVECONTEXT-WINDOW Depth Amplification Mechanism.Defined by default as ku = 5 (knowledge-unit multiplier) and kc = 2 (chunk mul- tiplier), these amplification coefficients jointly determine the adaptive recall quotas: Top-Ku =k u ·d,Top-K c =k c ·d.(10) Final knowledge selection.After diffusion ends, the Top-Ku expanded vertices (excluding anchors) are ex- tracted from the PABD output and merged with the initial vertices to form the final knowledge setset u. Final chunks selection.The extended relevance score of each chunk is computed by applying the same normalized ac- cumulation strategy as Equation (9) to the vertex-extension scores s′(v). The final chunk relevance is derived via a weighted fusion of these extended scores with the initial relevance values. Chunks are then ranked by this composite score in descending order. The Top-Kc selections, com- bined with the filtered setu, constitute the retrieved content for the final context window. The system utilizes the depth amplification coefficient and an “initial–expansion” fusion strategy to adaptively scale the memory window. This guarantees comprehensive knowl- 5 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory edge coverage for complex problems while preserving effi- ciency and cost-effectiveness for simple queries. 4. Experiment 4.1. Experimental Setup Baselines.We compared our approach with the state-of- the-art (SOTA) and widely adopted RAG methods. These include: Naive RAG; graph-enhanced methods ( LightRAG, PathRAG, and NodeRAG) and hypergraph-enhanced meth- ods