Briefly Prompt:—Goal— You are a helpful assistant responding to questions about data in the tables provided, and your task is to analyze the data tables provided and the corresponding questions meticulously. —Data tables— {info} —Example— -input- Question: When was Neville A. Stanton’s employer founded? -output- Thought: The employer of Neville A. Stanton is the University of Southampton. The University of Southampton was founded in 1862. Answer: 1862. —Query— -input- Question:{query} Your response starts after “Thought:”, where you will methodically break down the reasoning process, illustrating how you arrive at conclusions. Conclude with “Answer:” to present a concise, definitive response, devoid of additional elaborations. -output- Answering in Detail Prompt:—Goal— You are a helpful assistant responding to questions about data in the tables provided, and your task is to analyze the data tables provided and the corresponding questions meticulously. —Data tables— {info} —Example— -input- Question: What were the key design features and operational capabilities of the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) in relation to its development history, and how did these features contribute to its success in launching satellites, particularly in the context of India’s evolving space ambitions? -output- The Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) was designed and operated by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) as a medium-lift launch vehicle specifically developed to place satellites into sun-synchronous orbits... —Query— -input- Question:{query} The information you are responding with can only be obtained from the provided table. If possible, please provide an accurate and comprehensive answer directly in one or two paragraphs, with a word count of approximately 450 to 600 words. -output- 26 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory F.4. Prompts for Explanatory Task Generating One-Hop Question Prompt:-Goal- You are a professional teacher, and you are now asked to design a question that meets the requirements based on