the original text, describe the information of the entity in detail. The description should adopt the original sentence order and wording, provide a complete narrative without omitting any details; direct quotations of original phrases or appropriate supplements and analyses can be used, but the scattered information should be linked into a coherent, independent and readable paragraph. It is prohibited to summarize with a single sentence. - attribute:List any additional information that is not mentioned in the description but may be important, such as time, location, status, category, etc. If nothing is available, then skip this item. Extracting Low-order Relations Prompt:For all the entities determined in Step 1, conduct a full-scale pairwise analysis (that is, any two entities form a pair to be tested), and determine whether there are any grammatical or semantic relationships. #Special attention: - The types of relationships include but are not limited to: • Grammatical relationships: subject–verb–object, copular–complement, existential, coordinate, comparative, etc., which are grammatical structure relationships involving two entities; • Semantic relationships: synonymy, causality, sequence, containment, opposition, analogy, influence, etc., which are semantic structural associations involving two entities; •Referential relationships: including explicit and implicit aliases. - Different names of the same entity should also establish a pairing relationship! Including the following two types: • Explicit Alias–Whenever parentheses, quotation marks, dashes, “also known as”, “abbreviation”, “nickname”, or “acronym” are used, immediately capture them as synonymous entity pairs; • Implicit Replacement–Observing the “Reference Chain”: If the pronouns, names, or titles of the same subject change, it can be considered as a potential synonym. For each interrelated entity pair, extract the following information: 22 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory - entities pair:The name of paired entities that must be consistent with the results obtained in Step 1. For example:“[entity1, entity2]”. - relationship description:Based on