A andl2idwith newly activated verticesV B 2:procedureDTA(V F ,V B,V A,l2id,b,i,dir) 3:ifdir=FORWARDthen▷Forward 4:ifV F ̸=∅then 5:UFA(V F ,V A, l2id)) 6:else 7:b←min(b+ 0.1,0.5) 8:end if 9:else ▷BACKWARD 10:ifV B ̸=∅then 11:UBA(V B,V A, l2id) 12:b←max(b−0.10,0.0) 13:else 14:b←min(b+ 0.15,0.5) 15:i←i−1▷Backtracking 16:end if 17:end if 18:returnb,i ▷Return newbandi 19:end procedure 14 IGMiRAG: Intuition-Guided Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Adaptive Mining of In-Depth Memory B. IGMiRAG Pipeline Example Figure 8 and Figure 9 illustrate a representative example of the IGMiRAG indexing process and querying process, respectively. In the querying process example, content directly related to the final answer is highlighted in green. C. Case Study To illustrate the advantages of IGMiRAG, representative cases across three tasks are presented. Semantic elements in the figure are color-coded as follows: green regions denote the correct knowledge matching the standard answer; yellow regions indicate irrelevant or information-deficient contents; and red regions represent misleading noise fragments that misguide the model. As demonstrated in Figure 10 and Figure 11, IGMiRAG generates responses faithful to the standard answers by synthesizing logically coherent and highly relevant retrieval results. In contrast, NodeRAG fails to derive correct conclusions due to fragmented reasoning stemming from missing critical supporting facts. Furthermore, Hyper-RAG produces compromised outputs, as the injection of irrelevant noise leads to misjudgment. In the Knowledge Explanation task (Figure 12), the blue areas highlight critical information points essential for a complete answer. IGMiRAG’s response precisely covers all key points without redundancy. In contrast, NodeRAG omits two core pieces of information—“Ritika’s father’s name” and “the film’s screenwriter”—while introducing irrelevant descriptions and factual inaccuracies absent from the gold standard. More severely, Hyper-RAG fails to address the film’s core plot (e.g., “the conflict between Prabhu and Rithika’s father”), instead generating extensive abstract summaries. This deficiency stems from Hyper-RAG’s diffusion process lacking relevance constraints, causing retrieved fragments to deviate significantly