20 participants. Each vertical line shows data points denoting the average movement made in the axis direction over a 10-second period. We show stimulus segments among four conditions (Baseline, Elongation Distortion, Warp Distortion and Shift Distortion). Visible trends of users’ axis movement in the apply/return phase of three groups of distortion treatments become apparent by comparing with the baseline condition (see also statistical comparison in Fig. 10). Figure 10: Users’ movements on the axis of consideration corre- sponding to the effect applied to the room. “Baseline” represents the movement of twenty users during randomly chosen 10-second inter- vals without distortion effects. During the ”Apply” segments, users generally moved in the positive axis direction and in the opposite direction during the ”Return” segments. Error bars indicate 95%CI. An ANOVA with Bonferroni-corrected post-hoc pairwise comparisons reveals significant induced user movement during the distortion treat- ments. room. The remaining three distortion treatments had no consistent central effect on the user movement. Experimental groups were divided into ”apply” and ”return” groups based on stimulus segments, and their distance to the center was analyzed using ANOV A. As a result, significant differences between groups are shown. In the ANOV A table, theF value was 109.123 and the p-value < 0.001, showing a statistically significant difference in the size of apply and return. The movement from the distance from the center for each group is analyzed as shown in Fig.13. Based on the mean distance moved from the center, the Enlarge Distortion resulted in the most user movement. This was found by comparing both stimulus segments although both distortion effects performed comparably. Overall, our study aimed to investigate the influence of augmented distortion treatment on users’ natural locomotion while relying on their ability to comprehend the spatial transformation of the environ- ment. We hypothesized that H1: