the impression of becoming elongated, wrapped, shifted, elevated, and enlarged. The study results support the implementation of AR experiences in limited physical spaces by providing an initial under- standing of how users can be subtly encouraged to move throughout a room. Index Terms:Human-centered computing—Empirical studies in HCI; Computing methodologies—Mixed / augmented reality Com- puting methodologies—Virtual reality Computing methodologies— Perception 1 INTRODUCTION A growing number of virtual experiences take the user’s physical environment into account, which leads to an expansion of potential and possibilities in immersive home entertainment. Many gamers consuming entertainment in their homes are increasingly turning to immersive experience technology such as virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) for an extended reality or presence platform experience [38, 49]. Some VR work specifically addresses the question of supporting navigation in large VR environments while relying on real walking *This is a preprint version of this article. The final version of this paper can be found in the Proceedings of IEEE ISMAR 2023. For citation, please refer to the published version. This work was initially made available on the Microsoft Research website [microsoft.com] on September 2023, and was subsequently uploaded to arXiv for broader accessibility. in smaller physical environments. Redirected walking offers natural locomotion with correct proprioceptive, kinesthetic, and vestibu- lar stimulation, but it requires sizable actual tracking spaces [35]. Interaction-based redirected walking uses techniques such as warp- ing [9, 60] and sensory technologies [55] perceptual illusion [52], or space mapping [13, 56]. These techniques can operate in a smaller space; however, the experience is regularly interrupted to correct the user’s position when the user approaches the limit of the available walking space. VR routinely utilizes techniques such as room marking systems to assist users in navigating safely within the room when using VR. Room setup features introduced in SteamVR