Reality Distortion Room: A Study of User Locomotion Responses to Spatial Augmented Reality Effects * Y ou-Jin Kim University of California Santa Barbara Andrew D. Wilson Microsoft Research Jennifer Jacobs University of California Santa Barbara Tobias H¨ollerer University of California Santa Barbara Figure 1: The Spatial Augmented Reality (SAR) environment is augmented by four depth cameras and five short throw overhead projectors. a. User looking at a wall as the room’s geometric shape transforms. b. First-person point of view (POV) from the perspective of a user viewing a virtually extended space in the room. c. To improve users’ spatial awareness, numerous floating particles were rendered to their POV in the environment. d. In order to ensure user safety in a relatively dark area, texture pattern overlays are projected onto physical furniture to make it look like an illuminated hologram-like item. ABSTRACT Reality Distortion Room (RDR) is a proof-of-concept augmented re- ality system using projection mapping and unencumbered interaction with the Microsoft RoomAlive system to study a user’s locomotive response to visual effects that seemingly transform the physical room the user is in. This study presents five effects that augment the appearance of a physical room to subtly encourage user motion. Our experiment demonstrates users’ reactions to the different dis- tortion and augmentation effects in a standard living room, with the distortion effects projected as wall grids, furniture holograms, and small particles in the air. The augmented living room can give the impression of becoming elongated, wrapped, shifted, elevated, and enlarged. The study results support the implementation of AR experiences in limited physical spaces by providing an initial under- standing of how users can be subtly encouraged to move throughout a room. Index Terms:Human-centered computing—Empirical studies in HCI; Computing methodologies—Mixed / augmented reality Com- puting methodologies—Virtual reality Computing methodologies— Perception 1