from the center, the Enlarge Distortion resulted in the most user movement. This was found by comparing both stimulus segments although both distortion effects performed comparably. Overall, our study aimed to investigate the influence of augmented distortion treatment on users’ natural locomotion while relying on their ability to comprehend the spatial transformation of the environ- ment. We hypothesized that H1: The augmented distortion treatment can induce participants to move more in some directions than others Figure 11: Magnitudes of the apply and return of axis movements compared between three different distortion effects. Based on mean distance moved, the shift effect resulted in the most user movement towards the positive and negative ends of the axis, followed by the warp effect, and the elongation effect. and H2: The augmented distortion treatment can induce participants to move closer to or away from the center of the room. Our user study results indicated that both H1 and H2 hold true. Additionally, the Shift Distortion showed the largest directional effect while the Enlarge Distortion showed the largest central gath- ering/dispersion effect. The third hypothesis (H3) aimed to test whether specific augmented distortion treatments could influence participants’ natural locomotion to turn or move in a circular di- rection. During the pilot study, however, none of the designed treatments including those intended to induce circular movements, such as Rotation or Twist, were successful in producing this motion pattern. Participants also reported experiencing difficulty under- standing and dizziness, which made it challenging to comprehend the nature of these transformations from Rotation or Twist Distortion effects. Therefore, the third hypothesis was not confirmed. Figure 12: A raincloud plot depicting movement away and towards the center of the room when the elevation and expansion effects are applied. The upper whisker boundary of the box-plot is the largest data point