frame- work designed to enhance the trustworthiness of attributed QA. Our results demonstrate that a hybrid retrieval system combining BM25 and E5 significantly improves Recall@20 (+12.5%) compared to the best single model. RAGentA outperforms the standard RAG base- line, particularly in faithfulness (+10.7%), showing that providing in-line citations and conducting a second-stage retrieval for answer revision yield more relevant documents and well-grounded answers. While correctness sees only modest gains (+1.1%), our analysis indi- cates that the second-stage retrieval currently offers limited added value and may benefit from further refinement, such as adding the document filtering by early-stage agents. Finally, we acknowledge that the four-agent design, while effective in boosting correctness, introduces substantial computational overhead. This trade-off high- lights the need for future research to balance performance and efficiency in multi-agent RAG systems. The source code and exper- imental results presented in this study are publicly available in our Git repository at https://github.com/faerber-lab/RAGentA. Acknowledgments The authors acknowledge the financial support by the Federal Min- istry of Research, Technology and Space of Germany and by Säch- sische Staatsministerium für Wissenschaft, Kultur und Tourismus in the programme Center of Excellence for AI-research „Center for Scalable Data Analytics and Artificial Intelligence Dresden/Leipzig“, project identification number: ScaDS.AI. The authors also acknowledge computing resources provided by the NHR Center at TU Dresden, supported by the Ministry of Research, Technology and Space and the participating state gov- ernments within the NHR framework. RAGentA: Multi-Agent Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Attributed Question Answering LiveRAG@SIGIR 2025, July 13–17, 2025, Padua, Italy References [1] Moshe Berchansky, Daniel Fleischer, Moshe Wasserblat, and Peter Izsak. 2024. CoTAR: Chain-of-Thought Attribution Reasoning with Multi-level Granularity. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024 . ACL, Miami, Florida, USA, 236–246. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.findings-emnlp. 13 [2] Chia-Yuan Chang, Zhimeng Jiang, Vineeth Rakesh, Menghai Pan, Chin- Chia Michael Yeh,