attribution in long-form generation. 3 Synthetic Dataset Generation We constructed a diverse synthetic QA benchmark for the eval- uation of our RAGentA framework using the DataMorgana plat- form [5]. The dataset comprises 500 QA pairs, each associated with multiple supporting evidence paragraphs. Detailed statistics of the dataset, including the distribution across various question and user categories, are presented in Table 1. Table 1: Distribution of Question and User Categories Category Type Category Name Percent Question: answer-type comparison 49.8 Question: answer-type multi-aspect 28.4 Question: answer-type factoid 21.8 Question: premise without premise 67.4 Question: premise with premise 32.6 Question: formulation concise and natural 37.8 Question: formulation verbose and natural 35.0 Question: formulation short search query 14.2 Question: formulation long search query 13.0 User: user-expertise expert 50.8 User: user-expertise novice 49.2 4 The RAGentA Framework To address the SIGIR LiveRAG challenge, our primary objective is to ensure both the correctness and faithfulness of answers generated by RAG systems. To this end, we propose a multi-agent RAG archi- tecture comprising four specialized agents, each powered by the Falcon-3-10B language model. The overall framework is illustrated in Figure 1. This approach is entirely training-free and broadly applicable to diverse QA tasks and domains without the need for additional fine-tuning or task-specific adaptation. 4.1 Hybrid Retrieval System The first stage of our framework is a hybrid retrieval system that combines both dense and sparse models to ensure broad and con- textually relevant document coverage. Sparse retrieval, based on BM25, is a widely adopted model that relies on exact term match- ing [18, 19]. Our semantic retrieval is powered by dense embeddings using the intfloat/e5-base-v2 model (E5) with Pinecone as the vector store to capture nuanced semantic relationships [23]. These two systems are fused using a tunable interpolation pa- rameter 𝛼 ∈ [ 0, 1], producing a